

NAME

       dpkg - package manager for Debian


SYNOPSIS

       dpkg [option...] action


WARNING

       This manual is intended for users wishing to understand dpkg's command li ne options and package states in
       more detail than that provided by dpkg --help.

       It  should not be used by package maintainers wishing to understand how d pkg will install their packages.
       The descriptions of what dpkg does when installing and removing packages are particularly inadequate.


DESCRIPTION

       dpkg is a tool to install, build, remove and manage Debian packages. The primary and  more  user-friendly
       front-end  for dpkg is aptitude(1). dpkg itself is controlled entirely vi a command line parameters, which
       consist of exactly one action and zero or more options. The action-parame ter tells dpkg what  to  do  and
       options control the behavior of the action in some way.

       dpkg  can also be used as a front-end to dpkg-deb(1) and dpkg-query(1). T he list of supported actions can
       be found later on in the ACTIONS section. If any such action is encounter ed dpkg just  runs  dpkg-deb  or
       dpkg-query  with the parameters given to it, but no specific options are currently passed to them, to use
       any such option the back-ends need to be called directly.


INFORMATION ABOUT PACKAGES

       dpkg maintains some usable information about available packages. The  inf ormation  is  divided  in  three
       classes: states, selection states and flags. These values are intended to be changed mainly with dselect.

   Package states not-installed
              The package is not installed on your system.

       config-files
              Only the configuration files of the package exist on the system.

       half-installed
              The installation of the package has been started, but not complete d for some reason.

       unpacked
              The package is unpacked, but not configured.

       half-configured
              The package is unpacked and configuration has been started, but no t yet completed for some reason.

       triggers-awaited
              The package awaits trigger processing by another package.

       triggers-pending
              The package has been triggered.

       installed
              The package is correctly unpacked and configured.

   Package selection states install
              The package is selected for installation.

       hold   A  package  marked  to  be  on  hold  is not handled by dpkg, unle ss forced to do that with option
              --force-hold.

       deinstall
              The package is selected for deinstallation (i.e. we want to remove all files, except configuration
              files).

       purge  The package is selected to be purged (i.e. we want to remove every thing from  system  directories,
              even configuration files).

       unknown
              The package selection is unknown.  A package that is also in a not
-installed state, and with an ok
              flag will be forgotten in the next database store.

   Package flags
       ok     A package marked ok is in a known state, but might need further pr ocessing.

       reinstreq
              A  package  marked  reinstreq  is  broken  and  requires  reinstal lation. These packages cannot be
              removed, unless forced with option --force-remove-reinstreq.


ACTIONS

       -i, --install package-file...
              Install the package. If --recursive or -R option  is  specified, package-file  must  refer  to  a
              directory instead.

              Installation consists of the following steps:

              1. Extract the control files of the new package.

              2. If another version of the same package was installed before the new installation, execute prerm
              script of the old package.

              3. Run preinst script, if provided by the package.

              4.  Unpack  the  new  files, and at the same time back up the old files, so that if something goes
              wrong, they can be restored.

              5. If another version of the same package was installed before the new installation,  execute  the
              postrm  script  of  the old package. Note that this script is exec uted after the preinst script of
              the new package, because new files are written at the same time ol d files are removed.

              6. Configure the package. See --configure for detailed information about how this is done.

       --unpack package-file...
              Unpack the package, but don't configure it. If --recursive or -R o ption is specified, package-file
              must refer to a directory instead.

       --configure package...|-a|--pending
              Configure a package which has been unpacked but not yet configured
.  If -a or --pending  is  given
              instead of package, all unpacked but unconfigured packages are con figured.

              To  reconfigure  a  package which has already been configured, try the dpkg-reconfigure(8) command
              instead.

              Configuring consists of the following steps:

              1. Unpack the conffiles, and at the same time back up the old  con ffiles,  so  that  they  can  be
              restored if something goes wrong.

              2. Run postinst script, if provided by the package.

       --triggers-only package...|-a|--pending
              Processes only triggers (since dpkg 1.14.17).  All pending trigger s will be processed.  If package
              names  are  supplied  only  those  packages'  triggers  will be pr ocessed, exactly once each where
              necessary.  Use  of  this  option  may  leave  packages  in  the improper  triggers-awaited   and
              triggers-pending states. This can be fixed later by running: dpkg
--configure --pending.

       -r, --remove package...|-a|--pending
              Remove  an  installed package.  This removes everything except con ffiles and other data cleaned up
              by the postrm script, which may avoid having to reconfigure the pa ckage if it is reinstalled later
              (conffiles are configuration files that are listed in  the  DEBIAN
/conffiles  control  file).   If
              there  is no DEBIAN/conffiles control file nor DEBIAN/postrm scrip t, this command is equivalent to
              calling --purge.  If -a or --pending is given  instead  of  a  pac kage  name,  then  all  packages
              unpacked, but marked to be removed in file /var/lib/dpkg/status, a re removed.

              Removing of a package consists of the following steps:

              1. Run prerm script

              2. Remove the installed files

              3. Run postrm script

       -P, --purge package...|-a|--pending
              Purge  an  installed or already removed package. This removes ever ything, including conffiles, and
              anything else cleaned up from postrm.  If -a or --pending is given instead of a package name, then
              all packages unpacked or removed, but marked  to  be  purged  in file  /var/lib/dpkg/status,  are
              purged.

              Note:  some  configuration  files  might  be  unknown to dpkg beca use they are created and handled
              separately through the configuration scripts. In that case, dpkg w on't remove them by itself,  but
              the  package's  postrm  script (which is called by dpkg), has to t ake care of their removal during
              purge. Of course, this only applies to  files  in  system  directo ries,  not  configuration  files
              written to individual users' home directories.

              Purging of a package consists of the following steps:

              1.  Remove  the  package,  if not already removed. See --remove fo r detailed information about how
              this is done.

              2. Run postrm script.

       -V, --verify [package-name...]
              Verifies the integrity of package-name or all packages if omitted, by comparing  information  from
              the  files  installed by a package with the files metadata informa tion stored in the dpkg database
              (since dpkg 1.17.2).  The origin of the files metadata information in the database is  the  binary
              packages  themselves.  That metadata gets collected at package unp ack time during the installation
              process.

              Currently the only functional check performed is an  md5sum  verif ication  of  the  file  contents
              against the stored value in the files database.  It will only get checked if the database contains
              the  file  md5sum.  To  check for any missing metadata in the data base, the --audit command can be
              used.

              The output format is selectable with the --verify-format option, w hich by  default  uses  the  rpm
              format,  but  that  might  change in the future, and as such, prog rams parsing this command output
              should be explicit about the format they expect.

       -C, --audit [package-name...]
              Performs database sanity and consistency checks for package-name o r all packages if  omitted  (per
              package  checks  since dpkg 1.17.10).  For example, searches for p ackages that have been installed
              only partially on your system or that have missing, wrong or obsol ete control data or files.  dpkg
              will suggest what to do with them to get them fixed.

       --update-avail [Packages-file]
       --merge-avail [Packages-file]
              Update  dpkg's  and dselect's idea of which packages are available
. With action --merge-avail, old
              information is combined with information  from  Packages-file.  Wi th  action  --update-avail,  old
              information  is  replaced with the information in the Packages-fil e. The Packages-file distributed
              with Debian is simply named «Packages». If the Packages-file argum ent is missing or named «-» then
              it will be read from standard input (since dpkg  1.17.7).  dpkg  k eeps  its  record  of  available
              packages in /var/lib/dpkg/available.

              A  simpler one-shot command to retrieve and update the available f ile is dselect update. Note that
              this file is mostly useless if you don't use dselect but an APT-ba sed frontend: APT  has  its  own
              system to keep track of available packages.

       -A, --record-avail package-file...
              Update  dpkg  and dselect's idea of which packages are available w ith information from the package
              package-file. If --recursive or -R option is specified, package-fi le must  refer  to  a  directory
              instead.

       --forget-old-unavail
              Now obsolete and a no-op as dpkg will automatically forget uninsta lled unavailable packages (since
              dpkg 1.15.4), but only those that do not contain user information such as package selections.

       --clear-avail
              Erase the existing information about what packages are available.

       --get-selections [package-name-pattern...]
              Get  list of package selections, and write it to stdout. Without a pattern, non-installed packages
              (i.e. those which have been previously purged) will not be shown.

       --set-selections
              Set package selections using file read from stdin. This file shoul d  be  in  the  format  "package
              state",  where  state  is  one of install, hold, deinstall or purg e. Blank lines and comment lines
              beginning with `#' are also permitted.

              The available file needs to be up-to-date  for  this  command  to be  useful,  otherwise  unknown
              packages  will  be  ignored  with a warning. See the --update-avai l and --merge-avail commands for
              more information.

       --clear-selections
              Set the requested state of every non-essential package to deinstal l (since dpkg 1.13.18).  This is
              intended to be used immediately before --set-selections, to deinst all any  packages  not  in  list
              given to --set-selections.

       --yet-to-unpack
              Searches  for  packages  selected  for  installation, but which fo r some reason still haven't been
              installed.

              Note: This command makes use of both the available file and the pa ckage selections.

       --predep-package
              Print a single package which is the target of one or more relevant pre-dependencies and has itself
              no unsatisfied pre-dependencies.

              If such a package is present, output it as a  Packages  file  entr y,  which  can  be  massaged  as
              appropriate.

              Note: This command makes use of both the available file and the pa ckage selections.

              Returns 0 when a package is printed, 1 when no suitable package is available and 2 on error.

       --add-architecture architecture
              Add  architecture  to  the list of architectures for which package s can be installed without using
              --force-architecture (since dpkg 1.16.2).  The architecture dpkg i s built for (i.e. the output  of
              --print-architecture) is always part of that list.

       --remove-architecture architecture
              Remove  architecture  from  the  list of architectures for which p ackages can be installed without
              using --force-architecture (since dpkg 1.16.2). If the architectur e is currently  in  use  in  the
              database  then  the  operation  will  be refused, except if --forc e-architecture is specified. The
              architecture dpkg is built for (i.e. the output of --print-archite cture) can never be removed from
              that list.

       --print-architecture
              Print architecture of packages dpkg installs (for example, "i386")
.

       --print-foreign-architectures
              Print a newline-separated list of the extra architectures dpkg is configured to allow packages  to
              be installed for (since dpkg 1.16.2).

       --assert-feature
              Asserts  that dpkg supports the requested feature.  Returns 0 if t he feature is fully supported, 1
              if the feature is known but dpkg cannot provide support for it  ye t,  and  2  if  the  feature  is
              unknown.  The current list of assertable features is:

              support-predepends
                     Supports the Pre-Depends field (since dpkg 1.1.0).

              working-epoch
                     Supports epochs in version strings (since dpkg 1.4.0.7).

              long-filenames
                     Supports long filenames in deb(5) archives (since dpkg 1.4.
1.17).

              multi-conrep
                     Supports multiple Conflicts and Replaces (since dpkg 1.4.1.
19).

              multi-arch
                     Supports multi-arch fields and semantics (since dpkg 1.16.2
).

              versioned-provides
                     Supports versioned Provides (since dpkg 1.17.11).

       --validate-thing string
              Validate that the thing string has a correct syntax (since dpkg 1.
18.16).  Returns 0 if the string
              is valid, 1 if the string is invalid but might be accepted in lax contexts, and 2 if the string is
              invalid.  The current list of validatable things is:

              pkgname
                     Validates the given package name (since dpkg 1.18.16).

              trigname
                     Validates the given trigger name (since dpkg 1.18.16).

              archname
                     Validates the given architecture name (since dpkg 1.18.16).

              version
                     Validates the given version (since dpkg 1.18.16).

       --compare-versions ver1 op ver2
              Compare  version  numbers,  where  op is a binary operator. dpkg r eturns true (0) if the specified
              condition is satisfied, and false (1) otherwise. There are two gro ups of operators,  which  differ
              in how they treat an empty ver1 or ver2. These treat an empty vers ion as earlier than any version:
              lt  le  eq  ne  ge  gt.  These treat an empty version as later tha n any version: lt-nl le-nl ge-nl
              gt-nl. These are provided only for compatibility with control file syntax: < << <= = >= >> >.  The
              <  and > operators are obsolete and should not be used, due to con fusing semantics. To illustrate:
              0.1 < 0.1 evaluates to true.

       -?, --help
              Display a brief help message.

       --force-help
              Give help about the --force-thing options.

       -Dh, --debug=help
              Give help about debugging options.

       --version
              Display dpkg version information.

       dpkg-deb actions
              See dpkg-deb(1) for more information about the following actions.

              -b, --build directory [archive|directory]
                  Build a deb package.
              -c, --contents archive
                  List contents of a deb package.
              -e, --control archive [directory]
                  Extract control-information from a package.
              -x, --extract archive directory
                  Extract the files contained by package.
              -X, --vextract archive directory
                  Extract and display the filenames contained by a package.
              -f, --field  archive [control-field...]
                  Display control field(s) of a package.
              --ctrl-tarfile archive
                  Output the control tar-file contained in a Debian package.
              --fsys-tarfile archive
                  Output the filesystem tar-file contained by a Debian package.
              -I, --info archive [control-file...]
                  Show information about a package.

       dpkg-query actions
              See dpkg-query(1) for more information about the following actions
.

              -l, --list package-name-pattern...
                  List packages matching given pattern.
              -s, --status package-name...
                  Report status of specified package.
              -L, --listfiles package-name...
                  List files installed to your system from package-name.
              -S, --search filename-search-pattern...
                  Search for a filename from installed packages.
              -p, --print-avail package-name...
                  Display details about package-name, as found in
                  /var/lib/dpkg/available. Users of APT-based frontends
                  should use apt-cache show package-name instead.


OPTIONS

       All  options  can  be  specified  both  on  the  command  line  and  in the  dpkg   configuration   file
       /etc/dpkg/dpkg.cfg  or  fragment  files  (with names matching this shell pattern '[0-9a-zA-Z_-]*') on the
       configuration directory /etc/dpkg/dpkg.cfg.d/. Each line in the configura tion file is  either  an  option
       (exactly the same as the command line option but without leading hyphens) or a comment (if it starts with
       a `#').

       --abort-after=number
              Change after how many errors dpkg will abort. The default is 50.

       -B, --auto-deconfigure
              When  a  package is removed, there is a possibility that another i nstalled package depended on the
              removed package. Specifying this option will cause automatic decon figuration of the package  which
              depended on the removed package.

       -Doctal, --debug=octal
              Switch  debugging on. octal is formed by bitwise-oring desired val ues together from the list below
              (note that these values may  change  in  future  releases).  -Dh or  --debug=help  display  these
              debugging values.

                  Number   Description
                       1   Generally helpful progress information
                       2   Invocation and status of maintainer scripts
                      10   Output for each file processed
                     100   Lots of output for each file processed
                      20   Output for each configuration file
                     200   Lots of output for each configuration file
                      40   Dependencies and conflicts
                     400   Lots of dependencies/conflicts output
                   10000   Trigger activation and processing
                   20000   Lots of output regarding triggers
                   40000   Silly amounts of output regarding triggers
                    1000   Lots of drivel about e.g. the dpkg/info dir
                    2000   Insane amounts of drivel

       --force-things
       --no-force-things, --refuse-things
              Force  or  refuse  (no-force  and refuse mean the same thing) to d o some things. things is a comma
              separated list of things specified below. --force-help displays a message describing them.  Things
              marked with (*) are forced by default.

              Warning: These options are mostly intended to be used by experts o nly. Using  them  without  fully
              understanding their effects may break your whole system.

              all: Turns on (or off) all force options.

              downgrade(*): Install a package, even if newer version of it is al ready installed.

              Warning:  At present dpkg does not do any dependency checking on d owngrades and therefore will not
              warn you if the downgrade breaks the dependency of some other pack age. This can have serious  side
              effects,  downgrading  essential  system  components can even make your whole system unusable. Use
              with care.

              configure-any: Configure also any unpacked but unconfigured packag es on which the current  package
              depends.

              hold: Process packages even when marked "hold".

              remove-reinstreq: Remove a package, even if it's broken and marked to require reinstallation. This
              may, for example, cause parts of the package to remain on the syst em, which will then be forgotten
              by dpkg.

              remove-essential:  Remove, even if the package is considered essen tial. Essential packages contain
              mostly very basic Unix commands. Removing them might cause the who le system to  stop  working,  so
              use with caution.

              depends:  Turn  all  dependency  problems into warnings.  This aff ects the Pre-Depends and Depends
              fields.

              depends-version:  Don't  care  about  versions  when  checking  de pendencies.   This  affects  the
              Pre-Depends and Depends fields.

              breaks:  Install,  even if this would break another package (since dpkg 1.14.6).  This affects the
              Breaks field.

              conflicts: Install, even if it conflicts with another package. Thi s  is  dangerous,  for  it  will
              usually cause overwriting of some files.  This affects the Conflic ts field.

              confmiss: Always install the missing conffile without prompting. T his is dangerous, since it means
              not preserving a change (removing) made to the file.

              confnew: If a conffile has been modified and the version in the pa ckage did change, always install
              the new version without prompting, unless the --force-confdef is a lso specified, in which case the
              default action is preferred.

              confold:  If  a  conffile has been modified and the version in the package did change, always keep
              the old version without prompting, unless the --force-confdef is a lso specified, in which case the
              default action is preferred.

              confdef: If a conffile has been modified and the version in the pa ckage did change, always  choose
              the  default  action without prompting. If there is no default act ion it will stop to ask the user
              unless --force-confnew or --force-confold is also been given, in w hich case it will  use  that  to
              decide the final action.

              confask:  If  a  conffile  has  been  modified  always offer to re place it with the version in the
              package, even if the version in the package did  not  change  (sin ce  dpkg  1.15.8).   If  any  of
              --force-confnew,  --force-confold, or --force-confdef is also give n, it will be used to decide the
              final action.

              overwrite: Overwrite one package's file with another's file.

              overwrite-dir: Overwrite one package's directory with another's fi le.

              overwrite-diverted: Overwrite a diverted file with an undiverted v ersion.

              statoverride-add: Overwrite an existing stat override when adding it (since dpkg 1.19.5).

              statoverride-remove: Ignore a missing stat override when removing it (since dpkg 1.19.5).

              security-mac(*): Use  platform-specific  Mandatory  Access  Contro ls  (MAC)  based  security  when
              installing  files  into  the  filesystem (since dpkg 1.19.5).  On
Linux systems the implementation uses SELinux.

              unsafe-io: Do not perform safe I/O operations when unpacking  (sin ce  dpkg  1.15.8.6).   Currently
              this  implies  not  performing  file  system  syncs  before  file renames, which is known to cause
              substantial performance degradation on some file systems, unfortun ately the ones that require  the
              safe  I/O on the first place due to their unreliable behaviour cau sing zero-length files on abrupt
              system crashes.

              Note: For ext4, the main offender, consider using instead the moun t option nodelalloc, which  will
              fix  both  the  performance  degradation and the data safety issue s, the latter by making the file
              system not produce zero-length files on abrupt system crashes with any software  not  doing  syncs
              before atomic renames.

              Warning: Using this option might improve performance at the cost o f losing data, use with care.

              script-chrootless:  Run  maintainer  scripts without chroot(2)ing into instdir even if the package
              does not support this mode of operation (since dpkg 1.18.5).

              Warning: This can destroy your host system, use with extreme care.

              architecture: Process even packages with wrong or no architecture.

              bad-version: Process even packages with wrong versions (since dpkg
 1.16.1).

              bad-path: PATH is missing important programs, so problems are like ly.

              not-root: Try to (de)install things even when not root.

              bad-verify: Install a package even if it fails authenticity check.

       --ignore-depends=package,...
              Ignore dependency-checking for specified packages  (actually,  che cking  is  performed,  but  only
              warnings  about  conflicts  are  given,  nothing else).  This affe cts the Pre-Depends, Depends and
              Breaks fields.

       --no-act, --dry-run, --simulate
              Do everything which is supposed to be done, but don't write any ch anges. This is used to see  what
              would happen with the specified action, without actually modifying anything.

              Be  sure  to  give  --no-act  before  the  action-parameter,  or y ou might end up with undesirable
              results. (e.g. dpkg --purge foo --no-act will first purge  package foo  and  then  try  to  purge
              package --no-act, even though you probably expected it to actually do nothing)

       -R, --recursive
              Recursively handle all regular files matching pattern *.deb found at specified directories and all
              of  its  subdirectories.  This  can  be  used  with -i, -A, --inst all, --unpack and --record-avail
              actions.

       -G     Don't install a package if a newer version of the same package is already installed.  This  is  an
              alias of --refuse-downgrade.

       --admindir=dir
              Set  the  administrative  directory  to  directory.   This directo ry contains many files that give
              information about status of installed or uninstalled packages, etc
.  Defaults to «/var/lib/dpkg».

       --instdir=dir
              Set the installation directory, which refers to the directory wher e packages are to be  installed.
              instdir  is  also the directory passed to chroot(2) before running package's installation scripts,
              which means that the scripts see instdir as a root directory.  Def aults to «/».

       --root=dir
              Set the root directory to directory, which sets  the  installation directory  to  «dir»  and  the
              administrative directory to «dir/var/lib/dpkg».

       -O, --selected-only
              Only  process  the  packages  that  are selected for installation.
 The actual marking is done with
              dselect or by dpkg, when it handles packages. For example, when a package is removed, it  will  be
              marked selected for deinstallation.

       -E, --skip-same-version
              Don't install the package if the same version of the package is al ready installed.

       --pre-invoke=command
       --post-invoke=command
              Set  an  invoke  hook  command  to be run via "sh -c" before or af ter the dpkg run for the unpack,
              configure, install, triggers-only, remove, purge, add-architecture and  remove-architecture  dpkg
              actions  (since dpkg 1.15.4; add-architecture and remove-architect ure actions since dpkg 1.17.19).
              This option can be specified multiple times. The order the options are  specified  is  preserved,
              with  the  ones  from  the  configuration  files  taking  preceden ce.   The  environment  variable
              DPKG_HOOK_ACTION is set for the hooks to the current dpkg action.
Note: front-ends might call dpkg
              several times per invocation, which might run the hooks more times than expected.

       --path-exclude=glob-pattern
       --path-include=glob-pattern
              Set glob-pattern as a path filter, either by excluding or re-inclu ding previously  excluded  paths
              matching the specified patterns during install (since dpkg 1.15.8)
.

              Warning:  take  into  account that depending on the excluded paths you might completely break your
              system, use with caution.

              The glob patterns use the same wildcards used in the shell,  were
 `*'  matches  any  sequence  of
              characters,  including  the  empty  string  and  also  `/'.   For example, «/usr/*/READ*» matches
              «/usr/share/doc/package/README».  As usual, `?' matches any  singl e  character  (again,  including
              `/').   And  `['  starts  a  character  class,  which can contain a list of characters, ranges and
              complementations.  See  glob(7)  for  detailed  information  about globbing.  Note:  the  current
              implementation  might re-include more directories and symlinks tha n needed, to be on the safe side
              and avoid possible unpack failures; future work might fix this.

              This can be used to remove all paths except some particular ones; a typical case is:

              --path-exclude=/usr/share/doc/*
              --path-include=/usr/share/doc/*/copyright

              to remove all documentation files except the copyright files.

              These two options can be specified multiple times, and  interleave d  with  each  other.  Both  are
              processed in the given order, with the last rule that matches a fi le name making the decision.

              The filters are applied when unpacking the binary packages, and as such only have knowledge of the
              type  of  object  currently  being  filtered  (e.g.  a  normal  fi le  or a directory) and have not
              visibility of what objects will come next.  Because these filters have side effects  (in  contrast
              to  find(1)  filters),  excluding  an  exact  pathname  that happe ns to be a directory object like
              /usr/share/doc will not have the desired result, and only that pat hname will  be  excluded  (which
              could  be  automatically  reincluded  if  the code sees the need).
  Any subsequent files contained within that directory will fail to unpack.

              Hint: make sure the globs are not expanded by your shell.

       --verify-format format-name
              Sets the output format for the --verify command (since dpkg 1.17.2
).

              The only currently supported output format is rpm, which consists of a line for  every  path  that
              failed  any  check.  The lines start with 9 characters to report e ach specific check result, a `?'
              implies the check could not be done (lack of support, file  permis sions,  etc),  `.'  implies  the
              check  passed,  and  an  alphanumeric  character  implies  a  spec ific  check  failed;  the md5sum
              verification failure (the file contents  have  changed)  is  denot ed  with  a  `5'  on  the  third
              character.   The  line  is  followed  by  a  space  and  an attrib ute character (currently `c' for
              conffiles), another space and the pathname.

       --status-fd n
              Send machine-readable package status and progress information to f ile descriptor  n.  This  option
              can  be  specified multiple times. The information is generally on e record per line, in one of the
              following forms:

              status: package: status
                     Package status changed; status is as in the status file.

              status: package : error : extended-error-message
                     An error occurred. Any possible newlines in extended-error- message  will  be  converted  to
                     spaces before output.

              status: file : conffile-prompt : 'real-old' 'real-new' useredited distedited
                     User is being asked a conffile question.

              processing: stage: package
                     Sent  just  before  a  processing stage starts. stage is on e of upgrade, install (both sent
                     before unpacking), configure, trigproc, disappear, remove, purge.

       --status-logger=command
              Send machine-readable package status and progress information  to the  shell  command's  standard
              input,  to  be  run via "sh -c" (since dpkg 1.16.0).  This option can be specified multiple times.
              The output format used is the same as in --status-fd.

       --log=filename
              Log status change updates and actions to filename, instead of the default  /var/log/dpkg.log.  If
              this option is given multiple times, the last filename is used. Lo g messages are of the form:

              YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS startup type command
                     For  each  dpkg  invocation where type is archives (with a command of unpack or install) or
                     packages (with a command of configure, triggers-only, remov e or purge).

              YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS status state pkg installed-version
                     For status change updates.

              YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS action pkg installed-version available-version
                     For actions where action is one of install, upgrade, config ure, trigproc, disappear, remove
                     or purge.

              YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS conffile filename decision
                     For conffile changes where decision is either install or ke ep.

       --no-pager
              Disables the use of any pager when showing information (since dpkg
 1.19.2).

       --no-debsig
              Do not try to verify package signatures.

       --no-triggers
              Do not run any triggers in this run (since dpkg 1.14.17), but acti vations will still be  recorded.
              If  used  with --configure package or --triggers-only package then the named package postinst will
              still be run even if only a triggers run is needed. Use of this op tion may leave packages  in  the
              improper  triggers-awaited  and  triggers-pending states. This can be fixed later by running: dpkg
              --configure --pending.

       --triggers
              Cancels a previous --no-triggers (since dpkg 1.14.17).


EXIT STATUS

       0      The requested action was successfully performed.  Or a check or as sertion command returned true.

       1      A check or assertion command returned false.

       2      Fatal or unrecoverable error due to invalid command-line usage, or interactions with  the  system,
              such as accesses to the database, memory allocations, etc.


ENVIRONMENT

   External environment
       PATH   This  variable  is  expected  to be defined in the environment and point to the system paths where
              several required programs are to be found. If it's not set or the programs  are  not  found,  dpkg
              will abort.

       HOME   If set, dpkg will use it as the directory from which to read the u ser specific configuration file.

       TMPDIR If set, dpkg will use it as the directory in which to create tempo rary files and directories.

       SHELL  The  program  dpkg  will execute when starting a new interactive s hell, or when spawning a command
              via a shell.

       PAGER
       DPKG_PAGER
              The program dpkg will execute when running a pager,  for  example when  displaying  the  conffile
              differences.   If SHELL is not set, «sh» will be used instead.  Th e DPKG_PAGER overrides the PAGER
              environment variable (since dpkg 1.19.2).

       DPKG_COLORS
              Sets the color mode (since dpkg 1.18.5).  The  currently  accepted values  are:  auto  (default),
              always and never.

       DPKG_FORCE
              Sets  the  force  flags  (since  dpkg  1.19.5).   When this variab le is present, no built-in force
              defaults will be applied.  If the variable is present but empty, a ll force flags will be disabled.

       DPKG_FRONTEND_LOCKED
              Set by a package manager frontend to notify dpkg that it should  n ot  acquire  the  frontend  lock
              (since dpkg 1.19.1).

   Internal environment
       LESS   Defined  by  dpkg to "-FRSXMQ", if not already set, when spawning a pager (since dpkg 1.19.2).  To
              change the default behavior, this variable can be preset to some o ther value  including  an  empty
              string, or the PAGER or DPKG_PAGER variables can be set to disable specific options with «-+», for
              example DPKG_PAGER="less -+F".

       DPKG_ROOT
              Defined  by  dpkg  on  the  maintainer script environment to indic ate which installation to act on
              (since dpkg 1.18.5).  The value is intended to be prepended to any path maintainer scripts operate
              on.  During normal operation, this variable is empty.  When instal ling packages into  a  different
              instdir,  dpkg normally invokes maintainer scripts using chroot(2) and leaves this variable empty,
              but if --force-script-chrootless is specified then the chroot(2) c all is skipped  and  instdir  is
              non-empty.

       DPKG_ADMINDIR
              Defined by dpkg on the maintainer script environment to indicate t he dpkg administrative directory
              to use (since dpkg 1.16.0).  This variable is always set to the cu rrent --admindir value.

       DPKG_FORCE
              Defined  by  dpkg  on the subprocesses environment to all the curr ently enabled force option names
              separated by commas (since dpkg 1.19.5).

       DPKG_SHELL_REASON
              Defined by dpkg on the shell spawned on the conffile prompt to exa mine the situation  (since  dpkg
              1.15.6).  Current valid value: conffile-prompt.

       DPKG_CONFFILE_OLD
              Defined  by  dpkg on the shell spawned on the conffile prompt to e xamine the situation (since dpkg
              1.15.6).  Contains the path to the old conffile.

       DPKG_CONFFILE_NEW
              Defined by dpkg on the shell spawned on the conffile prompt to exa mine the situation  (since  dpkg
              1.15.6).  Contains the path to the new conffile.

       DPKG_HOOK_ACTION
              Defined  by  dpkg on the shell spawned when executing a hook actio n (since dpkg 1.15.4).  Contains
              the current dpkg action.

       DPKG_RUNNING_VERSION
              Defined by dpkg on the maintainer script environment to the versio n of the currently running  dpkg
              instance (since dpkg 1.14.17).

       DPKG_MAINTSCRIPT_PACKAGE
              Defined  by  dpkg  on  the  maintainer script environment to the ( non-arch-qualified) package name
              being handled (since dpkg 1.14.17).

       DPKG_MAINTSCRIPT_PACKAGE_REFCOUNT
              Defined by dpkg on the maintainer script environment to the  packa ge  reference  count,  i.e.  the
              number of package instances with a state greater than not-installe d (since dpkg 1.17.2).

       DPKG_MAINTSCRIPT_ARCH
              Defined by dpkg on the maintainer script environment to the archit ecture the package got built for
              (since dpkg 1.15.4).

       DPKG_MAINTSCRIPT_NAME
              Defined  by  dpkg  on  the maintainer script environment to the na me of the script running, one of
              preinst, postinst, prerm or postrm (since dpkg 1.15.7).

       DPKG_MAINTSCRIPT_DEBUG
              Defined by dpkg on the maintainer script environment to  a  value
 (`0'  or  `1')  noting  whether
              debugging  has  been  requested  (with  the --debug option) for th e maintainer scripts (since dpkg
              1.18.4).


FILES

       /etc/dpkg/dpkg.cfg.d/[0-9a-zA-Z_-]*
              Configuration fragment files (since dpkg 1.15.4).

       /etc/dpkg/dpkg.cfg
              Configuration file with default options.

       /var/log/dpkg.log
              Default log file (see /etc/dpkg/dpkg.cfg and option --log).

       The other files listed below are in their default directories, see option
 --admindir to see how to change locations of these files.

       /var/lib/dpkg/available
              List of available packages.

       /var/lib/dpkg/status
              Statuses of available packages. This file contains information abo ut whether a package  is  marked
              for  removing  or not, whether it is installed or not, etc. See se ction INFORMATION ABOUT PACKAGES
              for more info.

              The status file is backed up daily in /var/backups. It can be usef ul if it's lost or corrupted due
              to filesystems troubles.

       The format and contents of a binary package are described in deb(5).


BUGS

       --no-act usually gives less information than might be helpful.


EXAMPLES

       To list installed packages related to the editor vi(1) (note that dpkg-qu ery does not load the  available
       file anymore by default, and the dpkg-query --load-avail option should be used instead for that):
            dpkg -l '*vi*'

       To see the entries in /var/lib/dpkg/available of two packages: dpkg --print-avail elvis vim | less

       To search the listing of packages yourself: less /var/lib/dpkg/available

       To remove an installed elvis package: dpkg -r elvis

       To install a package, you first need to find it in an archive or CDROM. T he available file shows that the
       vim package is in section editors: cd /media/cdrom/pool/main/v/vim
            dpkg -i vim_4.5-3.deb

       To make a local copy of the package selection states: dpkg --get-selections >myselections

       You  might transfer this file to another computer, and after having updat ed the available file there with
       your package manager frontend of choice (see https://wiki.debian.org/Team s/Dpkg/FAQ  for  more  details),
       for example: apt-cache dumpavail | dpkg --merge-avail
       or with dpkg 1.17.6 and earlier: avail=`mktemp`
            apt-cache dumpavail >"$avail" dpkg --merge-avail "$avail"
            rm "$avail" you can install it with:
            dpkg --clear-selections dpkg --set-selections <myselections

       Note  that  this  will  not  actually install or remove anything, but jus t set the selection state on the
       requested packages. You will need some other application to actually down load and install  the  requested
       packages. For example, run apt-get dselect-upgrade.

       Ordinarily,  you will find that dselect(1) provides a more convenient way to modify the package selection
       states.


ADDITIONAL FUNCTIONALITY

       Additional functionality can be gained by installing any of the following packages:  apt,  aptitude  and
       debsums.


