

NAME

       find - search for files in a directory hierarchy


SYNOPSIS

       find [-H] [-L] [-P] [-D debugopts] [-Olevel] [starting-point...] [express ion]


DESCRIPTION

       This  manual page documents the GNU version of find.  GNU find searches t he directory tree rooted at each
       given starting-point by evaluating the given expression from left to righ t, according  to  the  rules  of
       precedence  (see  section  OPERATORS),  until  the  outcome is known (the left hand side is false for and
       operations, true for or), at which point find moves on to the next file n ame.  If  no  starting-point  is
       specified, `.' is assumed.

       If  you  are using find in an environment where security is important (fo r example if you are using it to
       search directories that are writable by other users),  you  should  read the  `Security  Considerations'
       chapter  of  the  findutils  documentation, which is called Finding Files and comes with findutils.  That
       document also includes a lot more detail and discussion than this manual page, so you may find it a  more
       useful source of information.


OPTIONS

       The  -H,  -L  and  -P  options control the treatment of symbolic links.
Command-line arguments following
       these are taken to be names of files or directories to be examined, up to the first argument that  begins
       with  `-',  or  the  argument  `(' or `!'.  That argument and any followi ng arguments are taken to be the
       expression describing what is to be searched for.  If no paths are given, the current directory is  used.
       If  no expression is given, the expression -print is used (but you should probably consider using -print0
       instead, anyway).

       This manual page talks about `options' within the expression list.  These options control  the  behaviour
       of  find  but are specified immediately after the last path name.  The fi ve `real' options -H, -L, -P, -D
       and -O must appear before the first path name, if at all.  A double dash
-- can also be  used  to  signal
       that  any  remaining  arguments  are not options (though ensuring that al l start points begin with either
       `./' or `/' is generally safer if you use wildcards in the list of start points).

       -P     Never follow symbolic links.  This is  the  default  behaviour.
When  find  examines  or  prints
              information  a file, and the file is a symbolic link, the informat ion used shall be taken from the
              properties of the symbolic link itself.

       -L     Follow symbolic links.  When find examines or prints information a bout files, the information used
              shall be taken from the properties of the file to which the link p oints, not from the link  itself
              (unless  it  is  a  broken  symbolic  link or find is unable to ex amine the file to which the link
              points).  Use of this option implies -noleaf.  If you later use th e -P option, -noleaf will  still
              be  in effect.  If -L is in effect and find discovers a symbolic l ink to a subdirectory during its
              search, the subdirectory pointed to by the symbolic link will be s earched.

              When the -L option is in effect, the -type predicate will always m atch against  the  type  of  the
              file  that  a  symbolic  link  points  to rather than the link its elf (unless the symbolic link is
              broken).  Actions that can cause symbolic links to become broken while  find  is  executing  (for
              example  -delete)  can  give  rise to confusing behaviour.  Using
-L causes the -lname and -ilname predicates always to return false.

       -H     Do not follow symbolic links, except while processing  the  comman d  line  arguments.   When  find
              examines  or  prints  information  about  files,  the  information used  shall  be taken from the
              properties of the symbolic link itself.  The only exception to  th is  behaviour  is  when  a  file
              specified  on  the  command  line  is  a  symbolic  link,  and the link can be resolved.  For that
              situation, the information used is taken from whatever the link po ints to (that is,  the  link  is
              followed).   The information about the link itself is used as a fa llback if the file pointed to by
              the symbolic link cannot be examined.  If -H is in effect and one of the paths  specified  on  the
              command  line  is  a symbolic link to a directory, the contents of that directory will be examined
              (though of course -maxdepth 0 would prevent this).

       If more than one of -H, -L and -P is specified, each overrides the others
; the last one appearing on  the
       command  line  takes effect.  Since it is the default, the -P option shou ld be considered to be in effect
       unless either -H or -L is specified.

       GNU find frequently stats files during the processing of the command line itself,  before  any  searching
       has  begun.   These  options  also  affect  how those arguments are proce ssed.  Specifically, there are a
       number of tests that compare  files  listed  on  the  command  line  agai nst  a  file  we  are  currently
       considering.   In  each  case, the file specified on the command line wil l have been examined and some of
       its properties will have been saved.  If the named file is in fact a symb olic link, and the -P option  is
       in effect (or if neither -H nor -L were specified), the information used for the comparison will be taken
       from  the  properties  of the symbolic link.  Otherwise, it will be taken from the properties of the file
       the link points to.  If find cannot follow the link (for example because it has  insufficient  privileges
       or the link points to a nonexistent file) the properties of the link itse lf will be used.

       When  the  -H  or  -L  options are in effect, any symbolic links listed a s the argument of -newer will be
       dereferenced, and the timestamp will be taken from the file to which the symbolic link points.  The  same
       consideration applies to -newerXY, -anewer and -cnewer.

       The -follow option has a similar effect to -L, though it takes effect at the point where it appears (that
       is, if -L is not used but -follow is, any symbolic links appearing after
-follow on the command line will
       be dereferenced, and those before it will not).

       -D debugopts
              Print  diagnostic information; this can be helpful to diagnose pro blems with why find is not doing
              what you want.  The list of debug options should be comma separate d.  Compatibility of  the  debug
              options  is  not  guaranteed  between  releases  of findutils.  Fo r a complete list of valid debug
              options, see the output of find -D help.  Valid debug options incl ude

              exec   Show diagnostic information relating to -exec, -execdir, -o k and -okdir

              opt    Prints diagnostic information relating to the optimisation of the expression tree; see  the
                     -O option.

              rates  Prints a summary indicating how often each predicate succee ded or failed.

              search Navigate the directory tree verbosely.

              stat   Print  messages  as  files  are  examined  with  the stat a nd lstat system calls.  The find
                     program tries to minimise such calls.

              tree   Show the expression tree in its original and optimised form
.

              all    Enable all of the other debug options (but help).

              help   Explain the debugging options.

       -Olevel
              Enables query optimisation.   The  find  program  reorders  tests to  speed  up  execution  while
              preserving the overall effect; that is, predicates with side effec ts are not reordered relative to
              each other.  The optimisations performed at each optimisation leve l are as follows.

              0      Equivalent to optimisation level 1.

              1      This  is  the  default  optimisation  level  and  correspon ds to the traditional behaviour.
                     Expressions are reordered so that tests based only on the n ames of files (for example -name
                     and -regex) are performed first.

              2      Any -type or -xtype tests are performed after any tests bas ed only on the names  of  files,
                     but  before  any tests that require information from the in ode.  On many modern versions of
                     Unix, file types are returned by readdir() and so these pre dicates are faster  to  evaluate
                     than  predicates  which  need to stat the file first.  If y ou use the -fstype FOO predicate
                     and specify a filesystem type FOO which is not known (that is, present in  `/etc/mtab')  at
                     the time find starts, that predicate is equivalent to -fals e.

              3      At  this  optimisation level, the full cost-based query opt imiser is enabled.  The order of
                     tests is modified so that cheap (i.e. fast) tests are perfo rmed first  and  more  expensive
                     ones  are  performed  later, if necessary.  Within each cos t band, predicates are evaluated
                     earlier or later according to  whether  they  are  likely to  succeed  or  not.   For  -o,
                     predicates  which are likely to succeed are evaluated earli er, and for -a, predicates which
                     are likely to fail are evaluated earlier.

              The cost-based optimiser has a fixed idea of how likely any given test is  to  succeed.   In  some
              cases  the  probability  takes account of the specific nature of t he test (for example, -type f is
              assumed to be more likely to succeed than -type c).  The cost-base d optimiser is  currently  being
              evaluated.   If  it  does  not actually improve the performance of find, it will be removed again.
              Conversely, optimisations that prove to be reliable, robust and ef fective may be enabled at  lower
              optimisation  levels  over  time.  However, the default behaviour
(i.e. optimisation level 1) will
              not be changed in the 4.3.x release series.  The findutils test su ite runs all the tests  on  find
              at each optimisation level and ensures that the result is the same
.


EXPRESSION

       The  part  of  the  command  line after the list of starting points is th e expression.  This is a kind of
       query specification describing how we match files and what we do with the files that  were  matched.   An
       expression is composed of a sequence of things:

       Tests  Tests  return  a  true  or  false  value,  usually  on the basis o f some property of a file we are
              considering.  The -empty test for example is true only when the cu rrent file is empty.

       Actions
              Actions have side effects (such as printing something on the stand ard output)  and  return  either
              true or false, usually based on whether or not they are successful
.  The -print action for example
              prints the name of the current file on the standard output.

       Global options
              Global  options  affect  the  operation  of tests and actions spec ified on any part of the command
              line.  Global options always return true.  The -depth option for e xample makes find  traverse  the
              file system in a depth-first order.

       Positional options
              Positional  options  affect  only  tests  or actions which follow them.  Positional options always
              return true.  The -regextype option for example is positional, spe cifying the  regular  expression
              dialect for regular expressions occurring later on the command lin e.

       Operators
              Operators  join  together  the  other  items  within  the expressi on.  They include for example -o
              (meaning logical OR) and -a (meaning logical AND).  Where an opera tor is missing, -a is assumed.

       The -print action is performed on all files for which the whole expressio n is true, unless it contains an
       action other than -prune or -quit.   Actions  which  inhibit  the  defaul t  -print  are  -delete,  -exec,
       -execdir, -ok, -okdir, -fls, -fprint, -fprintf, -ls, -print and -printf.

       The -delete action also acts like an option (since it implies -depth).

   POSITIONAL OPTIONS
       Positional options always return true.  They affect only tests occurring later on the command line.

       -daystart
              Measure  times  (for  -amin, -atime, -cmin, -ctime, -mmin, and -mt ime) from the beginning of today
              rather than from 24 hours ago.  This option only affects tests whi ch appear later on  the  command
              line.

       -follow
              Deprecated; use the -L option instead.  Dereference symbolic links
.  Implies -noleaf.  The -follow
              option  affects  only  those tests which appear after it on the co mmand line.  Unless the -H or -L
              option has been specified, the position of the -follow option chan ges the behaviour of the  -newer
              predicate;  any  files  listed as the argument of -newer will be d ereferenced if they are symbolic
              links.  The same consideration applies to -newerXY, -anewer and  - cnewer.   Similarly,  the  -type
              predicate  will  always  match  against the type of the file that a symbolic link points to rather
              than the link itself.  Using -follow causes the -lname and -ilname predicates  always  to  return
              false.

       -regextype type
              Changes  the regular expression syntax understood by -regex and -i regex tests which occur later on
              the command line.  To see which regular expression types are  know n,  use  -regextype  help.   The
              Texinfo  documentation  (see SEE ALSO) explains the meaning of and differences between the various
              types of regular expression.

       -warn, -nowarn
              Turn warning messages on or off.  These warnings apply only to the command line usage, not to  any
              conditions  that  find  might  encounter  when  it  searches  dire ctories.   The default behaviour
              corresponds to -warn if standard input is a tty, and to -nowarn ot herwise.  If a  warning  message
              relating  to  command-line  usage  is  produced,  the exit status of find is not affected.  If the
              POSIXLY_CORRECT environment variable is set, and -warn is also use d, it is not specified which, if
              any, warnings will be active.

   GLOBAL OPTIONS
       Global options always return true.  Global options take effect even for t ests which occur earlier on  the
       command  line.   To prevent confusion, global options should specified on the command-line after the list
       of start points, just before the first test, positional option or action.
  If you specify a global option
       in some other place, find will issue a warning message explaining that th is can be confusing.

       The global options occur after the list of start points, and so are not t he same kind of  option  as  -L,
       for example.

       -d     A synonym for -depth, for compatibility with FreeBSD, NetBSD, MacO
S X and OpenBSD.

       -depth Process  each  directory's  contents before the directory itself.
 The -delete action also implies
              -depth.

       -help, --help
              Print a summary of the command-line usage of find and exit.

       -ignore_readdir_race
              Normally, find will emit an error message when it fails to stat a file.  If you give  this  option
              and  a file is deleted between the time find reads the name of the file from the directory and the
              time it tries to stat the file, no error message will be issued.
This also applies  to  files  or
              directories  whose  names are given on the command line.  This opt ion takes effect at the time the
              command line is read, which means that you cannot search one part of  the  filesystem  with  this
              option  on and part of it with this option off (if you need to do that, you will need to issue two
              find commands instead, one with the option and one without it).

              Furthermore, find with the -ignore_readdir_race option will ignore errors of the -delete action in
              the case the file has disappeared since the parent directory was r ead: it will not output an error
              diagnostic, and the return code of the -delete action will be true
.

       -maxdepth levels
              Descend at most levels (a non-negative integer) levels of director ies below  the  starting-points.
              -maxdepth 0 means only apply the tests and actions to the starting
-points themselves.

       -mindepth levels
              Do  not apply any tests or actions at levels less than levels (a n on-negative integer).  -mindepth
              1 means process all files except the starting-points.

       -mount Don't descend directories on other filesystems.  An alternate name for  -xdev,  for  compatibility
              with some other versions of find.

       -noignore_readdir_race
              Turns off the effect of -ignore_readdir_race.

       -noleaf
              Do  not  optimize by assuming that directories contain 2 fewer sub directories than their hard link
              count.  This option is needed when searching filesystems that do n ot follow  the  Unix  directory-
              link  convention, such as CD-ROM or MS-DOS filesystems or AFS volu me mount points.  Each directory
              on a normal Unix filesystem has at least 2 hard links: its name an d its `.' entry.   Additionally,
              its  subdirectories  (if  any)  each  have  a  `..'  entry linked to that directory.  When find is
              examining a directory, after it has statted 2  fewer  subdirectori es  than  the  directory's  link
              count, it knows that the rest of the entries in the directory are non-directories (`leaf' files in
              the directory tree).  If only the files' names need to be examined
, there is no need to stat them;
              this gives a significant increase in search speed.

       -version, --version
              Print the find version number and exit.

       -xdev  Don't descend directories on other filesystems.

   TESTS
       Some  tests,  for  example  -newerXY  and  -samefile,  allow  comparison between the file currently being
       examined and some reference file specified  on  the  command  line.   Whe n  these  tests  are  used,  the
       interpretation of the reference file is determined by the options -H, -L and -P and any previous -follow,
       but  the  reference file is only examined once, at the time the command l ine is parsed.  If the reference
       file cannot be examined (for example, the stat(2) system call fails for i t), an error message is  issued,
       and find exits with a nonzero status.

       Numeric arguments can be specified as

       +n     for greater than n,

       -n     for less than n,

       n      for exactly n.

       -amin n
              File was last accessed n minutes ago.

       -anewer reference
              Time of the last access of the current file is more recent than th at of the last data modification
              of  the  reference file.  If reference is a symbolic link and the
-H option or the -L option is in
              effect, then the time of the last data modification of the file it points to is always used.

       -atime n
              File was last accessed n*24 hours ago.  When find figures out how many  24-hour  periods  ago  the
              file  was last accessed, any fractional part is ignored, so to mat ch -atime +1, a file has to have
              been accessed at least two days ago.

       -cmin n
              File's status was last changed n minutes ago.

       -cnewer reference
              Time of the last status change of the current file is more recent than  that  of  the  last  data
              modification  of  the reference file.  If reference is a symbolic link and the -H option or the -L
              option is in effect, then the time of the last data modification o f  the  file  it  points  to  is
              always used.

       -ctime n
              File's  status  was  last  changed  n*24 hours ago.  See the comme nts for -atime to understand how
              rounding affects the interpretation of file status change times.

       -empty File is empty and is either a regular file or a directory.

       -executable
              Matches files which are executable and directories which are searc hable (in a file name resolution
              sense) by the current user.  This takes into account access contro l lists  and  other  permissions
              artefacts  which the -perm test ignores.  This test makes use of t he access(2) system call, and so
              can be fooled by NFS servers  which  do  UID  mapping  (or  root-s quashing),  since  many  systems
              implement  access(2)  in the client's kernel and so cannot make us e of the UID mapping information
              held on the server.  Because this test is based only on the result of the access(2)  system  call,
              there is no guarantee that a file for which this test succeeds can actually be executed.

       -false Always false.

       -fstype type
              File is on a filesystem of type type.  The valid filesystem types vary among different versions of
              Unix;  an incomplete list of filesystem types that are accepted on some version of Unix or another
              is: ufs, 4.2, 4.3, nfs, tmp, mfs, S51K, S52K.  You can use -printf with the %F  directive  to  see
              the types of your filesystems.

       -gid n File's numeric group ID is n.

       -group gname
              File belongs to group gname (numeric group ID allowed).

       -ilname pattern
              Like  -lname,  but  the  match  is case insensitive.  If the -L op tion or the -follow option is in
              effect, this test returns false unless the symbolic link is broken
.

       -iname pattern
              Like -name, but the match is case insensitive.  For example, the p atterns `fo*'  and  `F??'  match
              the file names `Foo', `FOO', `foo', `fOo', etc.  The pattern `*foo
*` will also match a file called
              '.foobar'.

       -inum n
              File has inode number n.  It is normally easier to use the -samefi le test instead.

       -ipath pattern
              Like -path.  but the match is case insensitive.

       -iregex pattern
              Like -regex, but the match is case insensitive.

       -iwholename pattern
              See -ipath.  This alternative is less portable than -ipath.

       -links n
              File has n hard links.

       -lname pattern
              File  is  a  symbolic  link whose contents match shell pattern pat tern.  The metacharacters do not
              treat `/' or `.' specially.  If the -L option or the  -follow  opt ion  is  in  effect,  this  test
              returns false unless the symbolic link is broken.

       -mmin n
              File's data was last modified n minutes ago.

       -mtime n
              File's  data  was  last  modified  n*24  hours ago.  See the comme nts for -atime to understand how
              rounding affects the interpretation of file modification times.

       -name pattern
              Base of file name (the path with the leading directories removed) matches shell  pattern  pattern.
              Because the leading directories are removed, the file names consid ered for a match with -name will
              never  include  a  slash, so `-name a/b' will never match anything
 (you probably need to use -path
              instead).  A  warning  is  issued  if  you  try  to  do  this,  un less  the  environment  variable
              POSIXLY_CORRECT  is  set.  The metacharacters (`*', `?', and `[]') match a `.' at the start of the
              base name (this is a change in findutils-4.2.2; see  section  STAN
DARDS  CONFORMANCE  below).   To
              ignore a directory and the files under it, use -prune rather than checking every file in the tree;
              see  an  example  in  the description of that action.  Braces are not recognised as being special,
              despite the fact that some shells including Bash imbue braces with a  special  meaning  in  shell
              patterns.   The  filename  matching  is performed with the use of the fnmatch(3) library function.
              Don't forget to enclose the pattern in quotes in order to protect it from expansion by the shell.

       -newer reference
              Time of the last data modification of the current file is more rec ent than that of the  last  data
              modification  of  the reference file.  If reference is a symbolic link and the -H option or the -L
              option is in effect, then the time of the last data modification o f  the  file  it  points  to  is
              always used.

       -newerXY reference
              Succeeds  if  timestamp  X  of  the  file  being  considered is ne wer than timestamp Y of the file
              reference.  The letters X and Y can be any of the following letter s:

              a   The access time of the file reference
              B   The birth time of the file reference c   The inode status change time of reference
              m   The modification time of the file reference
              t   reference is interpreted directly as a time

              Some combinations are invalid; for example, it is invalid for X to be t.   Some  combinations  are
              not  implemented  on all systems; for example B is not supported o n all systems.  If an invalid or
              unsupported combination of XY is specified,  a  fatal  error  resu lts.   Time  specifications  are
              interpreted as for the argument to the -d option of GNU date.  If you try to use the birth time of
              a  reference file, and the birth time cannot be determined, a fata l error message results.  If you
              specify a test which refers to the birth time of files being exami ned, this test will fail for any
              files where the birth time is unknown.

       -nogroup
              No group corresponds to file's numeric group ID.

       -nouser
              No user corresponds to file's numeric user ID.

       -path pattern
              File name matches shell pattern pattern.  The metacharacters do no t treat `/'  or  `.'  specially;
              so, for example, find . -path "./sr*sc"
              will  print  an  entry  for  a  directory  called `./src/misc' (if one exists).  To ignore a whole
              directory tree, use -prune rather than checking every file in the tree.   Note  that  the  pattern
              match  test  applies  to  the  whole file name, starting from one of the start points named on the
              command line.  It would only make sense to use an absolute path na me here if  the  relevant  start
              point is also an absolute path.  This means that this command will never match anything:
                        find bar -path /foo/bar/myfile -print
              Find  compares  the -path argument with the concatenation of a dir ectory name and the base name of
              the file it's examining.  Since the concatenation will never end w ith  a  slash,  -path  arguments
              ending in a slash will match nothing (except perhaps a start point specified on the command line).
              The predicate -path is also supported by HP-UX find and is part of the POSIX 2008 standard.

       -perm mode
              File's permission bits are exactly mode (octal or symbolic).  Sinc e an exact match is required, if
              you  want  to  use  this  form  for  symbolic modes, you may have to specify a rather complex mode
              string.  For example `-perm g=w' will only match files which have mode 0020  (that  is,  ones  for
              which group write permission is the only permission set).  It is m ore likely that you will want to
              use  the  `/'  or  `-'  forms,  for  example `-perm -g=w', which m atches any file with group write
              permission.  See the EXAMPLES section for some illustrative exampl es.

       -perm -mode
              All of the permission bits mode are set for the file.  Symbolic mo des are accepted in  this  form,
              and this is usually the way in which you would want to use them.
You must specify `u', `g' or `o'
              if you use a symbolic mode.  See the EXAMPLES section for some ill ustrative examples.

       -perm /mode
              Any  of  the permission bits mode are set for the file.  Symbolic modes are accepted in this form.
              You must specify `u', `g' or `o' if you use a symbolic mode.  See the EXAMPLES  section  for  some
              illustrative  examples.   If  no  permission bits in mode are set, this test matches any file (the
              idea here is to be consistent with the behaviour of -perm -000).

       -perm +mode
              This is no longer supported (and has been deprecated since 2005).
 Use -perm /mode instead.

       -readable
              Matches files which are readable by the current user.  This  takes into  account  access  control
              lists  and  other  permissions artefacts which the -perm test igno res.  This test makes use of the
              access(2) system call, and so can be fooled  by  NFS  servers  whi ch  do  UID  mapping  (or  root-
              squashing),  since  many systems implement access(2) in the client
's kernel and so cannot make use
              of the UID mapping information held on the server.

       -regex pattern
              File name matches regular expression pattern.  This is a match on the whole path,  not  a  search.
              For  example,  to  match  a  file named `./fubar3', you can use th e regular expression `.*bar.' or
              `.*b.*3', but not `f.*r3'.  The regular expressions  understood  b y  find  are  by  default  Emacs
              Regular Expressions (except that `.' matches newline), but this ca n be changed with the -regextype
              option.

       -samefile name
              File refers to the same inode as name.  When -L is in effect, this can include symbolic links.

       -size n[cwbkMG]
              File uses n units of space, rounding up.  The following suffixes c an be used:

              `b'    for 512-byte blocks (this is the default if no suffix is us ed)

              `c'    for bytes

              `w'    for two-byte words

              `k'    for kibibytes (KiB, units of 1024 bytes)

              `M'    for mebibytes (MiB, units of 1024 * 1024 = 1048576 bytes)

              `G'    for gibibytes (GiB, units of 1024 * 1024 * 1024 = 107374182
4 bytes)

              The  size  is simply the st_size member of the struct stat populat ed by the lstat (or stat) system
              call, rounded up as shown above.  In other words, it's consistent with the result you get  for  ls
              -l.   Bear  in  mind  that  the  `%k'  and  `%b'  format specifier s of -printf handle sparse files
              differently.  The `b' suffix always denotes 512-byte blocks and ne ver 1024-byte blocks,  which  is
              different to the behaviour of -ls.

              The  + and - prefixes signify greater than and less than, as usual
; i.e., an exact size of n units
              does not match.  Bear in mind that the size is rounded up to the n ext unit.  Therefore  -size  -1M
              is  not  equivalent  to  -size -1048576c.  The former only matches empty files, the latter matches
              files from 0 to 1,048,575 bytes.

       -true  Always true.

       -type c
              File is of type c:

              b      block (buffered) special

              c      character (unbuffered) special

              d      directory

              p      named pipe (FIFO)

              f      regular file

              l      symbolic link; this is never true if the -L option or the
-follow  option  is  in  effect,
                     unless the symbolic link is broken.  If you want to search for symbolic links when -L is in
                     effect, use -xtype.

              s      socket

              D      door (Solaris)

              To  search  for  more  than  one  type  at  once, you can supply t he combined list of type letters
              separated by a comma `,' (GNU extension).

       -uid n File's numeric user ID is n.

       -used n
              File was last accessed n days after its status was last changed.

       -user uname
              File is owned by user uname (numeric user ID allowed).

       -wholename pattern
              See -path.  This alternative is less portable than -path.

       -writable
              Matches files which are writable by the current user.  This  takes into  account  access  control
              lists  and  other  permissions artefacts which the -perm test igno res.  This test makes use of the
              access(2) system call, and so can be fooled  by  NFS  servers  whi ch  do  UID  mapping  (or  root-
              squashing),  since  many systems implement access(2) in the client
's kernel and so cannot make use
              of the UID mapping information held on the server.

       -xtype c
              The same as -type unless the file is a symbolic link.  For symboli c links: if the -H or -P  option
              was  specified,  true  if the file is a link to a file of type c; if the -L option has been given,
              true if c is `l'.  In other words, for symbolic links, -xtype chec ks the type  of  the  file  that
              -type does not check.

       -context pattern
              (SELinux only) Security context of the file matches glob pattern.

   ACTIONS
       -delete
              Delete  files;  true if removal succeeded.  If the removal failed, an error message is issued.  If
              -delete fails, find's exit status will be nonzero (when it  eventu ally  exits).   Use  of  -delete
              automatically turns on the `-depth' option.

              Warnings:  Don't  forget  that  the  find  command  line is evalua ted as an expression, so putting
              -delete first will make find try to delete everything below the  s tarting  points  you  specified.
              When  testing a find command line that you later intend to use wit h -delete, you should explicitly
              specify -depth in order to avoid later surprises.  Because  -delet e  implies  -depth,  you  cannot
              usefully use -prune and -delete together.

              Together  with  the  -ignore_readdir_race option, find will ignore errors of the -delete action in
              the case the file has disappeared since the parent directory was r ead: it will not output an error
              diagnostic, and the return code of the -delete action will be true
.

       -exec command ;
              Execute command; true if 0 status is returned.  All following argu ments to find are  taken  to  be
              arguments  to  the command until an argument consisting of `;' is encountered.  The string `{}' is
              replaced by the current file name being processed everywhere it oc curs in  the  arguments  to  the
              command,  not  just  in  arguments  where it is alone, as in some versions of find.  Both of these
              constructions might need to be escaped (with a `\') or quoted to p rotect them  from  expansion  by
              the  shell.   See the EXAMPLES section for examples of the use of the -exec option.  The specified
              command is run once for each matched file.  The command is execute d  in  the  starting  directory.
              There  are  unavoidable  security problems surrounding use of the
-exec action; you should use the
              -execdir option instead.

       -exec command {} +
              This variant of the -exec action runs the specified command on the selected files, but the command
              line is built by appending each selected file name at the end; the total number of invocations  of
              the command will be much less than the number of matched files.  T he command line is built in much
              the same way that xargs builds its command lines.  Only one instan ce of `{}' is allowed within the
              command,  and (when find is being invoked from a shell) it should be quoted (for example, '{}') to
              protect it from interpretation by shells.  The command is executed in the starting directory.   If
              any invocation with the `+' form returns a non-zero value as exit status, then find returns a non-
              zero  exit  status.   If  find encounters an error, this can somet imes cause an immediate exit, so
              some pending commands may not be run at all.  This variant of -exe c always returns true.

       -execdir command ;

       -execdir command {} +
              Like -exec, but the specified command is run from the subdirectory containing  the  matched  file,
              which  is  not  normally the directory in which you started find.
 As with -exec, the {} should be
              quoted if find is being invoked from a shell.   This  a  much  mor e  secure  method  for  invoking
              commands,  as  it  avoids race conditions during resolution of the paths to the matched files.  As
              with the -exec action, the `+' form of -execdir will build a comma nd line to process more than one
              matched file, but any given invocation of command will only list f iles  that  exist  in  the  same
              subdirectory.   If  you use this option, you must ensure that your
 $PATH environment variable does
              not reference `.';  otherwise,  an  attacker  can  run  any  comma nds  they  like  by  leaving  an
              appropriately-named  file  in  a  directory  in  which you will ru n -execdir.  The same applies to
              having entries in $PATH which are empty or  which  are  not  absol ute  directory  names.   If  any
              invocation with the `+' form returns a non-zero value as exit stat us, then find returns a non-zero
              exit  status.   If  find  encounters an error, this can sometimes cause an immediate exit, so some
              pending commands may not be run at all.  The result of the action depends on whether the + or  the
              ;  variant  is  being used; -execdir command {} + always returns t rue, while -execdir command {} ;
              returns true only if command returns 0.

       -fls file
              True; like -ls but write to file like -fprint.  The output file is always  created,  even  if  the
              predicate  is  never matched.  See the UNUSUAL FILENAMES section f or information about how unusual
              characters in filenames are handled.

       -fprint file
              True; print the full file name into file file.  If file does not e xist when find  is  run,  it  is
              created;  if  it  does exist, it is truncated.  The file names `/d ev/stdout' and `/dev/stderr' are
              handled specially; they refer to the standard output and standard error output, respectively.  The
              output file is always created, even if the predicate is never matc hed.  See the UNUSUAL  FILENAMES
              section for information about how unusual characters in filenames are handled.

       -fprint0 file
              True; like -print0 but write to file like -fprint.  The output fil e is always created, even if the
              predicate  is  never matched.  See the UNUSUAL FILENAMES section f or information about how unusual
              characters in filenames are handled.

       -fprintf file format
              True; like -printf but write to file like -fprint.  The output fil e is always created, even if the
              predicate is never matched.  See the UNUSUAL FILENAMES section for information about  how  unusual
              characters in filenames are handled.

       -ls    True;  list  current  file  in  ls  -dils format on standard outpu t.  The block counts are of 1 KB
              blocks, unless the environment variable POSIXLY_CORRECT is set, in which case 512-byte blocks  are
              used.  See the UNUSUAL FILENAMES section for information about how unusual characters in filenames
              are handled.

       -ok command ;
              Like  -exec  but  ask the user first.  If the user agrees, run the command.  Otherwise just return
              false.  If the command is run, its standard input is redirected fr om /dev/null.

              The response to the prompt is matched against a pair of regular ex pressions to determine if it  is
              an  affirmative  or negative response.  This regular expression is obtained from the system if the
              `POSIXLY_CORRECT' environment variable is set, or otherwise from f ind's message translations.   If
              the  system  has  no suitable definition, find's own definition wi ll be used.  In either case, the
              interpretation of the regular expression itself will be  affected by  the  environment  variables
              'LC_CTYPE' (character classes) and 'LC_COLLATE' (character ranges and equivalence classes).

       -okdir command ;
              Like -execdir but ask the user first in the same way as for -ok.
If the user does not agree, just
              return false.  If the command is run, its standard input is redire cted from /dev/null.

       -print True;  print  the full file name on the standard output, followed by a newline.  If you are piping
              the output of find into another program and there is the faintest possibility that the files which
              you are searching for might contain a newline,  then  you  should seriously  consider  using  the
              -print0  option  instead  of  -print.  See the UNUSUAL FILENAMES s ection for information about how
              unusual characters in filenames are handled.

       -print0
              True; print the full file name on the standard output, followed by a null  character  (instead  of
              the  newline  character  that -print uses).  This allows file name s that contain newlines or other
              types of white space to be correctly interpreted by programs that process the find  output.   This
              option corresponds to the -0 option of xargs.

       -printf format
              True;  print  format  on  the standard output, interpreting `\' es capes and `%' directives.  Field
              widths and precisions can be specified as with the `printf' C func tion.  Please note that many  of
              the  fields are printed as %s rather than %d, and this may mean th at flags don't work as you might
              expect.  This also means that the `-' flag does  work  (it  forces fields  to  be  left-aligned).
              Unlike  -print,  -printf  does  not  add  a  newline  at  the  end of the string.  The escapes and
              directives are:

              \a     Alarm bell.

              \b     Backspace.

              \c     Stop printing from this format immediately and flush the ou tput.

              \f     Form feed.

              \n     Newline.

              \r     Carriage return.

              \t     Horizontal tab.

              \v     Vertical tab.

              \0     ASCII NUL.

              \\     A literal backslash (`\').

              \NNN   The character whose ASCII code is NNN (octal).

              A `\' character followed by any other character is treated as an o rdinary character, so they  both
              are printed.

              %%     A literal percent sign.

              %a     File's last access time in the format returned by the C `ct ime' function.

              %Ak    File's  last  access  time in the format specified by k, wh ich is either `@' or a directive
                     for the C `strftime' function.  The possible values for k a re listed below;  some  of  them
                     might not be available on all systems, due to differences i n `strftime' between systems.

                     @      seconds since Jan. 1, 1970, 00:00 GMT, with fraction al part.

                     Time fields:

                     H      hour (00..23)

                     I      hour (01..12)

                     k      hour ( 0..23)

                     l      hour ( 1..12)

                     M      minute (00..59)

                     p      locale's AM or PM

                     r      time, 12-hour (hh:mm:ss [AP]M)

                     S      Second (00.00 .. 61.00).  There is a fractional part
.

                     T      time, 24-hour (hh:mm:ss.xxxxxxxxxx)

                     +      Date and time, separated by `+', for example `2004-0
4-28+22:22:05.0'.  This is a GNU
                            extension.   The  time  is  given  in the current ti mezone (which may be affected by
                            setting the TZ environment variable).  The seconds f ield includes a fractional part.

                     X      locale's time representation (H:M:S).  The seconds f ield includes a fractional part.

                     Z      time zone (e.g., EDT), or nothing if no time zone is determinable

                     Date fields:

                     a      locale's abbreviated weekday name (Sun..Sat)

                     A      locale's full weekday name, variable length (Sunday.
.Saturday)

                     b      locale's abbreviated month name (Jan..Dec)

                     B      locale's full month name, variable length (January..
December)

                     c      locale's date and time (Sat Nov 04 12:02:33 EST 1989
).  The format is  the  same  as
                            for  ctime(3)  and  so  to  preserve  compatibility with  that  format, there is no
                            fractional part in the seconds field.

                     d      day of month (01..31)

                     D      date (mm/dd/yy)

                     h      same as b

                     j      day of year (001..366)

                     m      month (01..12)

                     U      week number of year with Sunday as first day of week
 (00..53)

                     w      day of week (0..6)

                     W      week number of year with Monday as first day of week
 (00..53)

                     x      locale's date representation (mm/dd/yy)

                     y      last two digits of year (00..99)

                     Y      year (1970...)

              %b     The amount of disk space used for this file  in  512-byte blocks.   Since  disk  space  is
                     allocated  in  multiples  of the filesystem block size this is usually greater than %s/512,
                     but it can also be smaller if the file is a sparse file.

              %c     File's last status change time in the format returned by th e C `ctime' function.

              %Ck    File's last status change time in the format specified by k
, which is the same as for %A.

              %d     File's depth in the directory tree; 0 means the file is a s tarting-point.

              %D     The device number on which the file exists (the st_dev fiel d of struct stat), in decimal.

              %f     File's name with any leading directories removed (only the last element).

              %F     Type of the filesystem the file is on; this value can be us ed for -fstype.

              %g     File's group name, or numeric group ID if the group has no name.

              %G     File's numeric group ID.

              %h     Leading directories of file's name (all but the last elemen t).  If the file  name  contains
                     no slashes (since it is in the current directory) the %h sp ecifier expands to `.'.

              %H     Starting-point under which file was found.

              %i     File's inode number (in decimal).

              %k     The  amount of disk space used for this file in 1 KB blocks
.  Since disk space is allocated
                     in multiples of the filesystem block size this is usually g reater than %s/1024, but it  can
                     also be smaller if the file is a sparse file.

              %l     Object of symbolic link (empty string if file is not a symb olic link).

              %m     File's  permission  bits (in octal).  This option uses the
`traditional' numbers which most
                     Unix implementations use, but if your particular implementa tion uses an unusual ordering of
                     octal permissions bits, you will see a difference between t he actual value  of  the  file's
                     mode  and  the output of %m.  Normally you will want to hav e a leading zero on this number,
                     and to do this, you should use the # flag (as in, for examp le, `%#m').

              %M     File's permissions (in symbolic form, as for ls).  This dir ective is supported in findutils
                     4.2.5 and later.

              %n     Number of hard links to file.

              %p     File's name.

              %P     File's name with the name of the starting-point under which it was found removed.

              %s     File's size in bytes.

              %S     File's sparseness.  This is calculated as (BLOCKSIZE*st_blo cks / st_size).  The exact value
                     you will get for an ordinary file  of  a  certain  length is  system-dependent.   However,
                     normally  sparse  files will have values less than 1.0, and files which use indirect blocks
                     may have a value which is greater than 1.0.  In general the number of blocks used by a file
                     is file system dependent.  The value used for BLOCKSIZE is system-dependent, but is usually
                     512 bytes.  If the file size is zero, the value printed is undefined.   On  systems  which
                     lack support for st_blocks, a file's sparseness is assumed to be 1.0.

              %t     File's last modification time in the format returned by the
 C `ctime' function.

              %Tk    File's last modification time in the format specified by k, which is the same as for %A.

              %u     File's user name, or numeric user ID if the user has no nam e.

              %U     File's numeric user ID.

              %y     File's type (like in ls -l), U=unknown type (shouldn't happ en)

              %Y     File's  type  (like %y), plus follow symlinks: `L'=loop, `N
'=nonexistent, `?' for any other
                     error when determining the type of the symlink target.

              %Z     (SELinux only) file's security context.

              %{ %[ %(
                     Reserved for future use.

              A `%' character followed by any other character is discarded, but the other character  is  printed
              (don't  rely  on  this,  as further format characters may be intro duced).  A `%' at the end of the
              format argument causes undefined behaviour  since  there  is  no following  character.   In  some
              locales,  it  may hide your door keys, while in others it may remo ve the final page from the novel
              you are reading.

              The %m and %d directives support the # , 0 and + flags, but the ot her directives do not,  even  if
              they  print numbers.  Numeric directives that do not support these flags include G, U, b, D, k and
              n.  The `-' format flag is supported and changes the alignment of a  field  from  right-justified
              (which is the default) to left-justified.

              See  the  UNUSUAL  FILENAMES section for information about how unu sual characters in filenames are
              handled.

       -prune True; if the file is a directory, do not descend into it.  If -dep th is given, then -prune has  no
              effect.  Because -delete implies -depth, you cannot usefully use - prune and -delete together.
                For example, to skip the directory `src/emacs' and all files and directories under it, and print
              the names of the other files found, do something like this: find . -path ./src/emacs -prune -o -print

       -quit  Exit  immediately.   No  child  processes will be left running, bu t no more paths specified on the
              command line will be processed.  For example, find /tmp/foo /tmp/b ar -print -quit will print  only
              /tmp/foo.   Any  command  lines  which  have  been built up with - execdir ... {} + will be invoked
              before find exits.  The exit status may or may not be zero, depend ing  on  whether  an  error  has
              already occurred.

   OPERATORS
       Listed in order of decreasing precedence:

       ( expr )
              Force  precedence.   Since  parentheses  are special to the shell, you will normally need to quote
              them.  Many of the examples in this manual  page  use  backslashes for  this  purpose:  `\(...\)'
              instead of `(...)'.

       ! expr True  if  expr  is false.  This character will also usually need p rotection from interpretation by
              the shell.

       -not expr
              Same as ! expr, but not POSIX compliant.

       expr1 expr2
              Two expressions in a row are taken to be joined with an implied -a
;  expr2  is  not  evaluated  if expr1 is false.

       expr1 -a expr2
              Same as expr1 expr2.

       expr1 -and expr2
              Same as expr1 expr2, but not POSIX compliant.

       expr1 -o expr2
              Or; expr2 is not evaluated if expr1 is true.

       expr1 -or expr2
              Same as expr1 -o expr2, but not POSIX compliant.

       expr1 , expr2
              List;  both  expr1  and expr2 are always evaluated.  The value of expr1 is discarded; the value of
              the list is the value of expr2.  The comma operator  can  be  usef ul  for  searching  for  several
              different  types of thing, but traversing the filesystem hierarchy only once.  The -fprintf action
              can be used to list the various matched items into several differe nt output files.

       Please note that -a when specified implicitly (for example by two tests appearing  without  an  explicit
       operator  between  them) or explicitly has higher precedence than -o.  Th is means that find . -name afile
       -o -name bfile -print will never print afile.


UNUSUAL FILENAMES

       Many of the actions of find result in the printing of data which is under the  control  of  other  users.
       This  includes  file  names,  sizes, modification times and so forth.  Fi le names are a potential problem
       since they can contain any character except `\0' and `/'.   Unusual  char acters  in  file  names  can  do
       unexpected  and  often  undesirable  things  to your terminal (for exampl e, changing the settings of your
       function keys on some terminals).  Unusual characters are handled  differ ently  by  various  actions,  as
       described below.

       -print0, -fprint0
              Always print the exact filename, unchanged, even if the output is going to a terminal.

       -ls, -fls
              Unusual  characters  are  always escaped.  White space, backslash, and double quote characters are
              printed using C-style escaping (for example `\f', `\"').  Other  u nusual  characters  are  printed
              using  an  octal  escape.   Other  printable characters (for -ls a nd -fls these are the characters
              between octal 041 and 0176) are printed as-is.

       -printf, -fprintf
              If the output is not going to a terminal, it is printed as-is.  Ot herwise, the result  depends  on
              which  directive  is in use.  The directives %D, %F, %g, %G, %H, %
Y, and %y expand to values which
              are not under control of files' owners, and so are printed as-is.
 The directives %a, %b, %c,  %d,
              %i, %k, %m, %M, %n, %s, %t, %u and %U have values which are under the control of files' owners but
              which  cannot be used to send arbitrary data to the terminal, and so these are printed as-is.  The
              directives %f, %h, %l, %p and %P are quoted.  This quoting is perf ormed in the same way as for GNU
              ls.  This is not the same quoting mechanism as the one used for -l s and -fls.  If you are able  to
              decide  what  format  to  use  for  the output of find then it is normally better to use `\0' as a
              terminator than to use newline, as file names can contain white sp ace and newline characters.  The
              setting of the `LC_CTYPE' environment variable is used to determin e which characters  need  to  be
              quoted.

       -print, -fprint
              Quoting is handled in the same way as for -printf and -fprintf.  I f you are using find in a script
              or  in  a  situation where the matched files might have arbitrary names, you should consider using
              -print0 instead of -print.

       The -ok and -okdir actions print the current filename as-is.  This may ch ange in a future release.


STANDARDS CONFORMANCE

       For closest compliance to the POSIX standard, you should set the  POSIXLY
_CORRECT  environment  variable.
       The following options are specified in the POSIX standard (IEEE Std 1003.
1-2008, 2016 Edition):

       -H     This option is supported.

       -L     This option is supported.

       -name  This  option  is supported, but POSIX conformance depends on the P
OSIX conformance of the system's
              fnmatch(3) library function.  As of findutils-4.2.2, shell metacha racters (`*', `?'  or  `[]'  for
              example)  will match a leading `.', because IEEE PASC interpretati on 126 requires this.  This is a
              change from previous versions of findutils.

       -type  Supported.  POSIX specifies `b', `c', `d', `l', `p', `f' and `s'.
 GNU  find  also  supports  `D',
              representing  a Door, where the OS provides these.  Furthermore, G
NU find allows multiple types to
              be specified at once in a comma-separated list.

       -ok    Supported.  Interpretation of the response is according to the `ye s' and `no' patterns selected by
              setting the `LC_MESSAGES' environment variable.  When the `POSIXLY
_CORRECT'  environment  variable
              is  set,  these  patterns  are  taken  system's  definition  of  a positive (yes) or negative (no)
              response.  See the system's documentation for nl_langinfo(3), in p articular  YESEXPR  and  NOEXPR.
              When  `POSIXLY_CORRECT'  is  not  set,  the  patterns  are  instea d  taken from find's own message
              catalogue.

       -newer Supported.  If the file specified is a symbolic link, it is always dereferenced.  This is a change
              from previous behaviour, which used to take the relevant time from the  symbolic  link;  see  the
              HISTORY section below.

       -perm  Supported.   If  the  POSIXLY_CORRECT  environment  variable  is n ot set, some mode arguments (for
              example +a+x) which are not valid in POSIX are supported for backw ard-compatibility.

       Other primaries
              The primaries -atime, -ctime, -depth, -exec,  -group,  -links,  -m time,  -nogroup,  -nouser,  -ok,
              -path, -print, -prune, -size, -user and -xdev are all supported.

       The  POSIX  standard  specifies parentheses `(', `)', negation `!' and th e `and' and `or' operators ( -a,
       -o).

       All other options, predicates, expressions and so forth are extensions be yond the POSIX  standard.   Many
       of these extensions are not unique to GNU find, however.

       The POSIX standard requires that find detects loops:

              The  find  utility  shall  detect infinite loops; that is, enterin g a previously visited directory
              that is an ancestor of the last file encountered.  When it detects an infinite  loop,  find  shall
              write  a  diagnostic  message  to  standard  error  and  shall  ei ther recover its position in the
              hierarchy or terminate.

       GNU find complies with these requirements.  The link count of directories which contain entries which are
       hard links to an ancestor will often be lower than they otherwise should be.  This can mean that GNU find
       will sometimes optimise away the visiting of a subdirectory which is actu ally  a  link  to  an  ancestor.
       Since  find  does  not  actually  enter such a subdirectory, it is allowe d to avoid emitting a diagnostic
       message.  Although this behaviour may be somewhat confusing, it is unlike ly that anybody actually depends
       on this behaviour.  If the leaf optimisation has been turned off with -no leaf, the directory  entry  will
       always  be  examined  and  the diagnostic message will be issued where it is appropriate.  Symbolic links
       cannot be used to create filesystem cycles as such, but if the -L option or the -follow option is in use,
       a diagnostic message is issued when find encounters a loop of symbolic li nks.  As with  loops  containing
       hard  links, the leaf optimisation will often mean that find knows that i t doesn't need to call stat() or
       chdir() on the symbolic link, so this diagnostic is frequently not necess ary.

       The -d option is supported for compatibility with various BSD systems, bu t  you  should  use  the  POSIX-
       compliant option -depth instead.

       The  POSIXLY_CORRECT  environment  variable  does not affect the behaviou r of the -regex or -iregex tests
       because those tests aren't specified in the POSIX standard.


ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

       LANG   Provides a default value for the internationalization variables th at are unset or null.

       LC_ALL If set to a non-empty string value, override the values  of  all the  other  internationalization
              variables.

       LC_COLLATE
              The  POSIX  standard  specifies that this variable affects the pat tern matching to be used for the
              -name option.  GNU find uses the fnmatch(3) library function,  and so  support  for  `LC_COLLATE'
              depends  on  the system library.  This variable also affects the i nterpretation of the response to
              -ok; while the `LC_MESSAGES' variable selects the actual pattern u sed to interpret the response to
              -ok,  the  interpretation  of  any  bracket  expressions  in  the pattern  will  be  affected  by
              `LC_COLLATE'.

       LC_CTYPE
              This variable affects the treatment of character classes used in r egular expressions and also with
              the  -name  test,  if  the system's fnmatch(3) library function su pports this.  This variable also
              affects the interpretation of any character classes in the regular expressions used  to  interpret
              the  response  to  the prompt issued by -ok.  The `LC_CTYPE' envir onment variable will also affect
              which characters are considered to be unprintable when filenames are  printed;  see  the  section
              UNUSUAL FILENAMES.

       LC_MESSAGES
              Determines  the  locale  to  be  used  for  internationalised  mes sages.  If the `POSIXLY_CORRECT'
              environment variable is set, this also determines the interpretati on of the response to the prompt
              made by the -ok action.

       NLSPATH
              Determines the location of the internationalisation message catalo gues.

       PATH   Affects the directories which are searched to find the executables invoked by -exec, -execdir, -ok
              and -okdir.

       POSIXLY_CORRECT
              Determines the block size used by -ls and -fls.  If POSIXLY_CORREC
T is set, blocks  are  units  of
              512 bytes.  Otherwise they are units of 1024 bytes.

              Setting  this  variable  also  turns  off  warning messages (that is, implies -nowarn) by default,
              because POSIX requires that apart from the output for -ok, all  me ssages  printed  on  stderr  are
              diagnostics and must result in a non-zero exit status.

              When POSIXLY_CORRECT is not set, -perm +zzz is treated just like - perm /zzz if +zzz is not a valid
              symbolic mode.  When POSIXLY_CORRECT is set, such constructs are t reated as an error.

              When  POSIXLY_CORRECT  is  set,  the  response to the prompt made by the -ok action is interpreted
              according to the system's message catalogue,  as  opposed  to  acc ording  to  find's  own  message
              translations.

       TZ     Affects the time zone used for some of the time-related format dir ectives of -printf and -fprintf.


EXAMPLES

       find /tmp -name core -type f -print | xargs /bin/rm -f

       Find  files  named  core  in  or  below  the  directory  /tmp  and delete them.  Note that this will work
       incorrectly if there are any filenames containing newlines, single or dou ble quotes, or spaces.

       find /tmp -name core -type f -print0 | xargs -0 /bin/rm -f

       Find files named core in or below the directory /tmp and delete them, pro cessing filenames in such a  way
       that  file  or  directory  names  containing  single  or  double quotes, spaces or newlines are correctly
       handled.  The -name test comes before the -type test in order to avoid ha ving to call  stat(2)  on  every
       file.

       find . -type f -exec file '{}' \;

       Runs  `file'  on  every  file  in or below the current directory.  Notice that the braces are enclosed in
       single quote marks to protect them from interpretation as shell script  p unctuation.   The  semicolon  is
       similarly  protected  by  the  use of a backslash, though single quotes c ould have been used in that case
       also.

       find / \( -perm -4000 -fprintf /root/suid.txt '%#m %u %p\n' \) , \
       \( -size +100M -fprintf /root/big.txt '%-10s %p\n' \)

       Traverse the filesystem just once, listing setuid files and directories into  /root/suid.txt  and  large
       files into /root/big.txt.

       find $HOME -mtime 0

       Search  for  files  in  your home directory which have been modified in t he last twenty-four hours.  This
       command works this way because the time since each file was last modified is divided by 24 hours and  any
       remainder  is  discarded.   That means that to match -mtime 0, a file wil l have to have a modification in
       the past which is less than 24 hours ago.

       find /sbin /usr/sbin -executable \! -readable -print

       Search for files which are executable but not readable.

       find . -perm 664

       Search for files which have read and write permission for their owner, an d group, but which  other  users
       can  read  but  not  write  to.  Files which meet these criteria but have other permissions bits set (for
       example if someone can execute the file) will not be matched.

       find . -perm -664

       Search for files which have read and write permission for their owner and group, and  which  other  users
       can  read,  without regard to the presence of any extra permission bits ( for example the executable bit).
       This will match a file which has mode 0777, for example.

       find . -perm /222

       Search for files which are writable by somebody (their owner, or their gr oup, or anybody else).

       find . -perm /220 find . -perm /u+w,g+w
       find . -perm /u=w,g=w

       All three of these commands do the same thing, but the first one uses the octal  representation  of  the
       file  mode,  and  the  other  two  use  the symbolic form.  These command s all search for files which are
       writable by either their owner or their group.  The files don't have to b e writable by both the owner and
       group to be matched; either will do.

       find . -perm -220 find . -perm -g+w,u+w

       Both these commands do the same thing; search for files which are writabl e by both their owner and  their
       group.

       find . -perm -444 -perm /222 \! -perm /111 find . -perm -a+r -perm /a+w \! -perm /a+x

       These  two  commands  both  search for files that are readable for everyb ody ( -perm -444 or -perm -a+r),
       have at least one write bit set ( -perm /222 or -perm /a+w) but are not e xecutable for anybody ( !  -perm
       /111 and ! -perm /a+x respectively).

       cd /source-dir
       find . -name .snapshot -prune -o \( \! -name '*~' -print0 \)| cpio -pmd0 /dest-dir

       This  command  copies  the  contents  of  /source-dir to /dest-dir, but o mits files and directories named
       .snapshot (and anything in them).  It also omits files or directories who se name ends in ~, but not their
       contents.  The construct -prune -o \( ... -print0 \)  is  quite  common.
  The  idea  here  is  that  the
       expression  before  -prune  matches  things  which  are  to be pruned.  H owever, the -prune action itself
       returns true, so the following -o  ensures  that  the  right  hand  side is  evaluated  only  for  those
       directories  which  didn't  get  pruned  (the contents of the pruned dire ctories are not even visited, so
       their contents are irrelevant).  The expression on the right hand side of the -o is in  parentheses  only
       for  clarity.   It emphasises that the -print0 action takes place only fo r things that didn't have -prune
       applied to them.  Because the default `and' condition between tests binds more tightly than -o,  this  is
       the default anyway, but the parentheses help to show what is going on.

       find repo/ \( -exec test -d '{}'/.svn \; -or \
       -exec test -d {}/.git \; -or -exec test -d {}/CVS \; \) \
       -print -prune

       Given the following directory of projects and their associated SCM admini strative directories, perform an
       efficient search for the projects' roots:

       repo/project1/CVS repo/gnu/project2/.svn
       repo/gnu/project3/.svn repo/gnu/project3/src/.svn
       repo/project4/.git

       In  this  example, -prune prevents unnecessary descent into directories t hat have already been discovered
       (for example we do not search project3/src because we already found proje ct3/.svn), but  ensures  sibling
       directories (project2 and project3) are found.

       find /tmp -type f,d,l

       Search  for  files, directories, and symbolic links in the directory /tmp passing these types as a comma-
       separated list (GNU extension), which is otherwise equivalent to the long er, yet more portable:

       find /tmp \( -type f -o -type d -o -type l \)


EXIT STATUS

       find exits with status 0 if all files are processed successfully, greater than 0 if errors  occur.   This
       is deliberately a very broad description, but if the return value is non- zero, you should not rely on the
       correctness of the results of find.

       When  some  error  occurs,  find may stop immediately, without completing all the actions specified.  For
       example, some starting points may not have been examined or some pending program  invocations  for  -exec
       ... {} + or -execdir ... {} + may not have been performed.


