

NAME

       grep, egrep, fgrep, rgrep - print lines that match patterns


SYNOPSIS

       grep [OPTION...] PATTERNS [FILE...] grep [OPTION...] -e PATTERNS ... [FILE...]
       grep [OPTION...] -f PATTERN_FILE ... [FILE...]


DESCRIPTION

       grep  searches  for  PATTERNS  in  each  FILE.   PATTERNS  is  one  or mo re patterns separated by newline
       characters, and grep prints each line that matches a pattern.  Typically
PATTERNS should be  quoted  when grep is used in a shell command.

       A  FILE  of  "-"  stands for standard input.  If no FILE is given, recurs ive searches examine the working
       directory, and nonrecursive searches read standard input.

       In addition, the variant programs egrep, fgrep and rgrep are the same as grep -E, grep -F,  and  grep -r,
       respectively.  These variants are deprecated, but are provided for backwa rd compatibility.


OPTIONS

   Generic Program Information
       --help Output a usage message and exit.

       -V, --version
              Output the version number of grep and exit.

   Pattern Syntax
       -E, --extended-regexp
              Interpret PATTERNS as extended regular expressions (EREs, see belo w).

       -F, --fixed-strings
              Interpret PATTERNS as fixed strings, not regular expressions.

       -G, --basic-regexp
              Interpret PATTERNS as basic regular expressions (BREs, see below).
  This is the default.

       -P, --perl-regexp
              Interpret  PATTERNS  as  Perl-compatible regular expressions (PCRE s).  This option is experimental
              when combined with the -z (--null-data) option, and grep -P may wa rn of unimplemented features.

   Matching Control
       -e PATTERNS, --regexp=PATTERNS
              Use PATTERNS as the patterns.  If this option is used multiple tim es or is combined  with  the  -f
              (--file)  option,  search  for  all  patterns given.  This option can be used to protect a pattern
              beginning with "-".

       -f FILE, --file=FILE
              Obtain patterns from FILE, one per line.  If this option is used m ultiple  times  or  is  combined
              with  the  -e  (--regexp)  option,  search  for  all patterns give n.  The empty file contains zero
              patterns, and therefore matches nothing.

       -i, --ignore-case
              Ignore case distinctions in patterns and input data, so that chara cters that differ only  in  case
              match each other.

       --no-ignore-case
              Do  not ignore case distinctions in patterns and input data.  This is the default.  This option is
              useful for passing to shell scripts that already use -i, to cancel its  effects  because  the  two
              options override each other.

       -v, --invert-match
              Invert the sense of matching, to select non-matching lines.

       -w, --word-regexp
              Select  only  those lines containing matches that form whole words
.  The test is that the matching
              substring must either be at the beginning of the line,  or  preced ed  by  a  non-word  constituent
              character.   Similarly,  it  must  be  either  at  the  end  of th e line or followed by a non-word
              constituent character.  Word-constituent characters are letters, d igits, and the underscore.  This
              option has no effect if -x is also specified.

       -x, --line-regexp
              Select only those matches that exactly match the whole line.  For a  regular  expression  pattern,
              this is like parenthesizing the pattern and then surrounding it wi th ^ and $.

       -y     Obsolete synonym for -i.

   General Output Control
       -c, --count
              Suppress normal output; instead print a count of matching lines fo r each input file.  With the -v,
              --invert-match option (see below), count non-matching lines.

       --color[=WHEN], --colour[=WHEN]
              Surround the matched (non-empty) strings, matching lines, context lines, file names, line numbers,
              byte  offsets,  and  separators  (for fields and groups of context lines) with escape sequences to
              display them in color on the terminal.   The  colors  are  defined by  the  environment  variable
              GREP_COLORS.   The  deprecated environment variable GREP_COLOR is still supported, but its setting
              does not have priority.  WHEN is never, always, or auto.

       -L, --files-without-match
              Suppress normal output; instead print the name of each input  file from  which  no  output  would
              normally have been printed.  The scanning will stop on the first m atch.

       -l, --files-with-matches
              Suppress normal output; instead print the name of each input file from which output would normally
              have been printed.  The scanning will stop on the first match.

       -m NUM, --max-count=NUM
              Stop reading a file after NUM matching lines.  If the input is sta ndard input from a regular file,
              and  NUM  matching  lines  are  output, grep ensures that the stan dard input is positioned to just
              after the last matching line before exiting, regardless of the pre sence of trailing context lines.
              This enables a calling process to resume a search.  When grep stop s after NUM matching  lines,  it
              outputs  any  trailing  context  lines.  When the -c or --count op tion is also used, grep does not
              output a count greater than NUM.  When the -v or --invert-match op tion is also  used,  grep  stops
              after outputting NUM non-matching lines.

       -o, --only-matching
              Print  only  the  matched  (non-empty) parts of a matching line, w ith each such part on a separate
              output line.

       -q, --quiet, --silent
              Quiet; do not write anything to standard output.  Exit immediately with zero status if  any  match
              is found, even if an error was detected.  Also see the -s or --no- messages option.

       -s, --no-messages
              Suppress error messages about nonexistent or unreadable files.

   Output Line Prefix Control
       -b, --byte-offset
              Print  the  0-based  byte  offset  within  the  input  file  befor e  each  line  of output.  If -o
              (--only-matching) is specified, print the offset of the matching p art itself.

       -H, --with-filename
              Print the file name for each match.  This is the default when ther e  is  more  than  one  file  to
              search.

       -h, --no-filename
              Suppress  the  prefixing of file names on output.  This is the def ault when there is only one file
              (or only standard input) to search.

       --label=LABEL
              Display input actually coming from standard input as input coming from file LABEL.   This  can  be
              useful  for  commands  that  transform a file's contents before se arching, e.g., gzip -cd foo.gz |
              grep --label=foo -H 'some pattern'.  See also the -H option.

       -n, --line-number
              Prefix each line of output with the 1-based line number within its input file.

       -T, --initial-tab
              Make sure that the first character of actual line  content  lies on  a  tab  stop,  so  that  the
              alignment  of  tabs  looks  normal.   This  is useful with options that prefix their output to the
              actual content: -H,-n, and -b.  In order to improve the probabilit y that lines from a single  file
              will  all  start at the same column, this also causes the line num ber and byte offset (if present)
              to be printed in a minimum size field width.

       -u, --unix-byte-offsets
              Report Unix-style byte offsets.  This switch causes grep to report byte offsets  as  if  the  file
              were  a  Unix-style  text  file, i.e., with CR characters stripped off.  This will produce results
              identical to running grep on a Unix machine.  This option has no e ffect unless -b option  is  also
              used; it has no effect on platforms other than MS-DOS and MS-Windo ws.

       -Z, --null
              Output a zero byte (the ASCII NUL character) instead of the charac ter that normally follows a file
              name.   For  example,  grep  -lZ  outputs  a  zero  byte after eac h file name instead of the usual
              newline.  This option makes the output unambiguous, even in the pr esence of file names  containing
              unusual  characters  like newlines.  This option can be used with commands like find -print0, perl
              -0, sort -z, and xargs -0 to process  arbitrary  file  names,  eve n  those  that  contain  newline
              characters.

   Context Line Control
       -A NUM, --after-context=NUM
              Print  NUM  lines  of  trailing  context  after  matching lines.
Places a line containing a group
              separator (--) between contiguous groups of matches.  With the -o or --only-matching option,  this
              has no effect and a warning is given.

       -B NUM, --before-context=NUM
              Print  NUM  lines  of  leading  context  before  matching lines.
Places a line containing a group
              separator (--) between contiguous groups of matches.  With the -o or --only-matching option,  this
              has no effect and a warning is given.

       -C NUM, -NUM, --context=NUM
              Print  NUM  lines  of  output  context.   Places  a line containin g a group separator (--) between
              contiguous groups of matches.  With the -o or --only-matching opti on, this has  no  effect  and  a
              warning is given.

   File and Directory Selection
       -a, --text
              Process a binary file as if it were text; this is equivalent to th e --binary-files=text option.

       --binary-files=TYPE
              If  a file's data or metadata indicate that the file contains bina ry data, assume that the file is
              of type TYPE.  Non-text bytes indicate binary  data;  these  are either  output  bytes  that  are
              improperly encoded for the current locale, or null input bytes whe n the -z option is not given.

              By default, TYPE is binary, and grep suppresses output after null input binary data is discovered,
              and suppresses output lines that contain improperly encoded data.
 When some output is suppressed,
              grep follows any output with a one-line message saying that a bina ry file matches.

              If  TYPE  is without-match, when grep discovers null input binary data it assumes that the rest of
              the file does not match; this is equivalent to the -I option.

              If TYPE is text, grep processes a binary file as if it were text; this is  equivalent  to  the  -a
              option.

              When type is binary, grep may treat non-text bytes as line termina tors even without the -z option.
              This  means choosing binary versus text can affect whether a patte rn matches a file.  For example,
              when type is binary the pattern q$ might match q immediately follo wed by a null byte, even  though
              this  is  not  matched  when type is text.  Conversely, when type is binary the pattern . (period)
              might not match a null byte.

              Warning: The -a option might output binary garbage, which can  hav e  nasty  side  effects  if  the
              output  is  a terminal and if the terminal driver interprets some of it as commands.  On the other
              hand, when reading files whose text encodings are unknown, it can be helpful to use -a or  to  set
              LC_ALL='C'  in  the  environment, in order to find more matches ev en if the matches are unsafe for
              direct display.

       -D ACTION, --devices=ACTION
              If an input file is a device, FIFO or socket, use ACTION to proces s it.   By  default,  ACTION  is
              read,  which  means that devices are read just as if they were ord inary files.  If ACTION is skip,
              devices are silently skipped.

       -d ACTION, --directories=ACTION
              If an input file is a directory, use ACTION to process it.  By def ault, ACTION is read, i.e., read
              directories just as if they were ordinary files.  If ACTION is ski p,  silently  skip  directories.
              If  ACTION  is recurse, read all files under each directory, recur sively, following symbolic links
              only if they are on the command line.  This is equivalent to the - r option.

       --exclude=GLOB
              Skip any command-line file with a name suffix  that  matches  the pattern  GLOB,  using  wildcard
              matching;  a name suffix is either the whole name, or a trailing p art that starts with a non-slash
              character immediately after a slash (/) in the name.  When searchi ng recursively, skip any subfile
              whose base name matches GLOB; the base name is the part after the last slash.  A pattern  can  use
              *, ?, and [...] as wildcards, and \ to quote a wildcard or backsla sh character literally.

       --exclude-from=FILE
              Skip  files  whose  base  name  matches  any of the file-name glob s read from FILE (using wildcard
              matching as described under --exclude).

       --exclude-dir=GLOB
              Skip any command-line directory with a name suffix that matches th e pattern GLOB.  When  searching
              recursively,  skip  any  subdirectory whose base name matches GLOB
.  Ignore any redundant trailing slashes in GLOB.

       -I     Process a binary file as if  it  did  not  contain  matching  data
;  this  is  equivalent  to  the
              --binary-files=without-match option.

       --include=GLOB
              Search  only  files  whose  base  name  matches  GLOB  (using wild card matching as described under
              --exclude).

       -r, --recursive
              Read all files under each directory, recursively, following symbol ic links only if they are on the
              command line.  Note that if no file operand is given, grep searche s the working  directory.   This
              is equivalent to the -d recurse option.

       -R, --dereference-recursive
              Read all files under each directory, recursively.  Follow all symb olic links, unlike -r.

   Other Options
       --line-buffered
              Use line buffering on output.  This can cause a performance penalt y.

       -U, --binary
              Treat the file(s) as binary.  By default, under MS-DOS and MS-Wind ows, grep guesses whether a file
              is  text or binary as described for the --binary-files option.  If grep decides the file is a text
              file, it strips the CR characters from the original file contents
 (to  make  regular  expressions
              with  ^  and  $  work correctly).  Specifying -U overrules this gu esswork, causing all files to be
              read and passed to the matching mechanism verbatim; if the file is a text file with CR/LF pairs at
              the end of each line, this will cause some regular expressions to fail.  This option has no effect
              on platforms other than MS-DOS and MS-Windows.

       -z, --null-data
              Treat input and output data as sequences of lines, each terminated by a zero byte (the  ASCII  NUL
              character)  instead  of  a  newline.   Like  the -Z or --null opti on, this option can be used with
              commands like sort -z to process arbitrary file names.


REGULAR EXPRESSIONS

       A regular expression is a pattern that describes a set of strings.  Regul ar expressions  are  constructed
       analogously to arithmetic expressions, by using various operators to comb ine smaller expressions.

       grep  understands  three different versions of regular expression syntax:
 "basic" (BRE), "extended" (ERE)
       and "perl" (PCRE).  In GNU grep there is no difference  in  available  fu nctionality  between  basic  and
       extended syntaxes.  In other implementations, basic regular expressions a re less powerful.  The following
       description  applies  to  extended  regular  expressions;  differences  f or basic regular expressions are
       summarized afterwards.  Perl-compatible  regular  expressions  give  addi tional  functionality,  and  are
       documented in pcresyntax(3) and pcrepattern(3), but work only if PCRE is available in the system.

       The  fundamental  building  blocks  are  the  regular  expressions  that match a single character.  Most
       characters, including all letters and digits, are regular expressions tha t match themselves.   Any  meta-
       character with special meaning may be quoted by preceding it with a backs lash.

       The period . matches any single character.  It is unspecified whether it matches an encoding error.

   Character Classes and Bracket Expressions
       A  bracket  expression  is  a list of characters enclosed by [ and ].  It matches any single character in
       that list.  If the first character of the list is the caret ^ then it mat ches any character  not  in  the
       list;  it  is  unspecified  whether  it  matches  an encoding error.  For example, the regular expression
       [0123456789] matches any single digit.

       Within a bracket expression, a range expression consists of two character s separated  by  a  hyphen.   It
       matches  any  single  character  that  sorts  between  the  two character s, inclusive, using the locale's
       collating sequence and character set.  For example, in the default  C  lo cale,  [a-d]  is  equivalent  to
       [abcd].   Many  locales  sort characters in dictionary order, and in thes e locales [a-d] is typically not
       equivalent to [abcd]; it might be equivalent to  [aBbCcDd],  for  example
.   To  obtain  the  traditional
       interpretation  of  bracket  expressions,  you  can  use  the  C locale b y setting the LC_ALL environment
       variable to the value C.

       Finally, certain named classes of characters are  predefined  within  bra cket  expressions,  as  follows.
       Their  names  are  self  explanatory, and they are [:alnum:], [:alpha:],
[:blank:], [:cntrl:], [:digit:],
       [:graph:],  [:lower:],  [:print:],  [:punct:],  [:space:],  [:upper:],  a nd  [:xdigit:].   For   example,
       [[:alnum:]]  means the character class of numbers and letters in the curr ent locale.  In the C locale and
       ASCII character set encoding, this is the same as [0-9A-Za-z].  (Note tha t the brackets  in  these  class
       names  are  part  of  the symbolic names, and must be included in additio n to the brackets delimiting the
       bracket expression.)  Most meta-characters lose their special meaning  in side  bracket  expressions.   To
       include  a literal ] place it first in the list.  Similarly, to include a literal ^ place it anywhere but
       first.  Finally, to include a literal - place it last.

   Anchoring
       The caret ^ and the dollar sign $ are meta-characters that respectively m atch the  empty  string  at  the
       beginning and end of a line.

   The Backslash Character and Special Expressions
       The symbols \< and \> respectively match the empty string at the beginnin g and end of a word.  The symbol
       \b  matches  the empty string at the edge of a word, and \B matches the e mpty string provided it's not at
       the edge of a word.  The symbol \w is a synonym for [_[:alnum:]] and \W i s a synonym for [^_[:alnum:]].

   Repetition
       A regular expression may be followed by one of several repetition operato rs:
       ?      The preceding item is optional and matched at most once.
       *      The preceding item will be matched zero or more times.
       +      The preceding item will be matched one or more times.
       {n}    The preceding item is matched exactly n times.
       {n,}   The preceding item is matched n or more times.
       {,m}   The preceding item is matched at most m times.  This is a GNU exte nsion.
       {n,m}  The preceding item is matched at least n times, but not more than m times.

   Concatenation
       Two regular expressions may be concatenated; the resulting regular expres sion matches any  string  formed
       by concatenating two substrings that respectively match the concatenated expressions.

   Alternation
       Two  regular  expressions may be joined by the infix operator |; the resu lting regular expression matches
       any string matching either alternate expression.

   Precedence
       Repetition takes precedence over concatenation, which in turn takes prece dence over alternation.  A whole
       expression may be enclosed in parentheses to override these precedence ru les and form a subexpression.

   Back-references and Subexpressions
       The back-reference \n, where n is a single digit, matches the substring p reviously  matched  by  the  nth
       parenthesized subexpression of the regular expression.

   Basic vs Extended Regular Expressions
       In basic regular expressions the meta-characters ?, +, {, |, (, and ) los e their special meaning; instead
       use the backslashed versions \?, \+, \{, \|, \(, and \).


EXIT STATUS

       Normally  the  exit  status  is  0  if a line is selected, 1 if no lines were selected, and 2 if an error
       occurred.  However, if the -q or --quiet or --silent is used and a line i s selected, the exit status is 0
       even if an error occurred.


ENVIRONMENT

       The behavior of grep is affected by the following environment variables.

       The locale for category LC_foo is specified by examining the three enviro nment variables LC_ALL,  LC_foo,
       LANG,  in  that  order.   The first of these variables that is set specif ies the locale.  For example, if
       LC_ALL is not set, but LC_MESSAGES is set to pt_BR, then the Brazilian Po rtuguese locale is used for  the
       LC_MESSAGES category.  The C locale is used if none of these environment variables are set, if the locale
       catalog  is  not  installed, or if grep was not compiled with national la nguage support (NLS).  The shell
       command locale -a lists locales that are currently available.

       GREP_OPTIONS
              This variable specifies default options to be placed in front of a ny explicit  options.   As  this
              causes problems when writing portable scripts, this feature will b e removed in a future release of
              grep, and grep warns if it is used.  Please use an alias or script instead.

       GREP_COLOR
              This variable specifies the color used to highlight matched (non-e mpty) text.  It is deprecated in
              favor  of  GREP_COLORS,  but still supported.  The mt, ms, and mc capabilities of GREP_COLORS have
              priority over it.  It can only specify the color used to highlight the matching non-empty text  in
              any  matching  line (a selected line when the -v command-line opti on is omitted, or a context line
              when -v is specified).  The default is 01;31, which means  a  bold red  foreground  text  on  the
              terminal's default background.

       GREP_COLORS
              Specifies  the  colors  and  other  attributes used to highlight v arious parts of the output.  Its
              value    is    a     colon-separated     list     of     capabilit ies     that     defaults     to
              ms=01;31:mc=01;31:sl=:cx=:fn=35:ln=32:bn=32:se=36  with the rv and ne boolean capabilities omitted
              (i.e., false).  Supported capabilities are as follows.

              sl=    SGR substring for whole selected lines (i.e.,  matching  li nes  when  the  -v  command-line
                     option  is omitted, or non-matching lines when -v is specif ied).  If however the boolean rv
                     capability and the -v command-line  option  are  both  spec ified,  it  applies  to  context
                     matching lines instead.  The default is empty (i.e., the te rminal's default color pair).

              cx=    SGR  substring  for  whole context lines (i.e., non-matchin g lines when the -v command-line
                     option is omitted, or matching lines when -v is specified).
   If  however  the  boolean  rv
                     capability  and  the -v command-line option are both specif ied, it applies to selected non-
                     matching lines instead.  The default is empty (i.e., the te rminal's default color pair).

              rv     Boolean value that reverses (swaps) the meanings of the sl= and cx= capabilities  when  the
                     -v  command-line  option  is  specified.   The  default  is false (i.e., the capability is
                     omitted).

              mt=01;31
                     SGR substring for matching non-empty text in any matching l ine (i.e., a selected line  when
                     the  -v  command-line  option is omitted, or a context line when -v is specified).  Setting
                     this is equivalent to setting both ms= and mc= at once to t he same value.  The default is a
                     bold red text foreground over the current line background.

              ms=01;31
                     SGR substring for matching non-empty text in a selected lin e.  (This is only used when  the
                     -v  command-line  option  is  omitted.)   The  effect  of t he sl= (or cx= if rv) capability
                     remains active when this kicks in.  The default is a bold red  text  foreground  over  the
                     current line background.

              mc=01;31
                     SGR  substring  for matching non-empty text in a context li ne.  (This is only used when the
                     -v command-line option is specified.)  The effect of the cx
=  (or  sl=  if  rv)  capability
                     remains  active  when  this  kicks  in.  The default is a b old red text foreground over the
                     current line background.

              fn=35  SGR substring for file names prefixing any content line.  T he default  is  a  magenta  text
                     foreground over the terminal's default background.

              ln=32  SGR  substring  for  line  numbers prefixing any content li ne.  The default is a green text
                     foreground over the terminal's default background.

              bn=32  SGR substring for byte offsets prefixing any content line.
 The default  is  a  green  text
                     foreground over the terminal's default background.

              se=36  SGR  substring  for  separators that are inserted between s elected line fields (:), between
                     context line fields, (-), and between groups of adjacent  l ines  when  nonzero  context  is
                     specified  (--).   The  default  is  a  cyan  text  foregro und  over the terminal's default
                     background.

              ne     Boolean value that prevents clearing to the end of line usi ng Erase in Line (EL)  to  Right
                     (\33[K)  each  time  a colorized item ends.  This is needed on terminals on which EL is not
                     supported.  It is otherwise useful  on  terminals  for  whi ch  the  back_color_erase  (bce)
                     boolean  terminfo capability does not apply, when the chose n highlight colors do not affect
                     the background, or when EL is too slow or causes too much f licker.  The  default  is  false
                     (i.e., the capability is omitted).

              Note  that  boolean capabilities have no =... part.  They are omit ted (i.e., false) by default and
              become true when specified.

              See the Select Graphic Rendition (SGR) section in the documentatio n of the text terminal  that  is
              used  for  permitted values and their meaning as character attribu tes.  These substring values are
              integers in decimal representation and can be concatenated with se micolons.  grep  takes  care  of
              assembling  the  result  into  a  complete  SGR sequence (\33[...m
).  Common values to concatenate
              include 1 for bold, 4 for underline, 5 for blink, 7 for inverse, 3
9 for default foreground  color,
              30  to  37 for foreground colors, 90 to 97 for 16-color mode foreg round colors, 38;5;0 to 38;5;255
              for 88-color and 256-color modes foreground colors, 49 for default background color, 40 to 47  for
              background  colors,  100  to  107  for 16-color mode background co lors, and 48;5;0 to 48;5;255 for
              88-color and 256-color modes background colors.

       LC_ALL, LC_COLLATE, LANG
              These variables specify the locale for the LC_COLLATE category,  w hich  determines  the  collating
              sequence used to interpret range expressions like [a-z].

       LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, LANG
              These  variables  specify  the  locale  for  the  LC_CTYPE  catego ry, which determines the type of
              characters, e.g., which characters are whitespace.  This category also  determines  the  character
              encoding,  that  is, whether text is encoded in UTF-8, ASCII, or s ome other encoding.  In the C or
              POSIX locale, all characters are encoded as a single byte and ever y byte is a valid character.

       LC_ALL, LC_MESSAGES, LANG
              These variables specify the locale for the LC_MESSAGES category, which  determines  the  language
              that grep uses for messages.  The default C locale uses American E nglish messages.

       POSIXLY_CORRECT
              If  set,  grep  behaves  as  POSIX requires; otherwise, grep behav es more like other GNU programs.
              POSIX requires that options that follow file names must be treated as file names; by default, such
              options are permuted to the front of the operand list and are trea ted  as  options.   Also,  POSIX
              requires  that  unrecognized  options  be  diagnosed  as  "illegal
", but since they are not really
              against the law the default is to diagnose  them  as  "invalid".
 POSIXLY_CORRECT  also  disables
              _N_GNU_nonoption_argv_flags_, described below.

       _N_GNU_nonoption_argv_flags_
              (Here  N is grep's numeric process ID.)  If the ith character of t his environment variable's value
              is 1, do not consider the ith operand of grep to be an option, eve n if it appears to  be  one.   A
              shell can put this variable in the environment for each command it runs, specifying which operands
              are  the  results  of file name wildcard expansion and therefore s hould not be treated as options.
              This behavior is available only with the GNU C library, and only w hen POSIXLY_CORRECT is not set.


NOTES

       This man page is maintained only fitfully; the full documentation is ofte n more up-to-date.


