

NAME

       passwd - change user password


SYNOPSIS


       passwd [options] [LOGIN]


DESCRIPTION

       The passwd command changes passwords for user accounts. A normal user may only change the password for
       their own account, while the superuser may change the password for any ac count.  passwd also changes the
       account or associated password validity period.

   Password Changes
       The user is first prompted for their old password, if one is present. Thi s password is then encrypted and
       compared against the stored password. The user has only one chance to ent er the correct password. The
       superuser is permitted to bypass this step so that forgotten passwords ma y be changed.

       After the password has been entered, password aging information is checke d to see if the user is
       permitted to change the password at this time. If not, passwd refuses to change the password and exits.

       The user is then prompted twice for a replacement password. The second en try is compared against the
       first and both are required to match in order for the password to be chan ged.

       Then, the password is tested for complexity. As a general guideline, pass words should consist of 6 to 8
       characters including one or more characters from each of the following se ts:

        o    lower case alphabetics

        o    digits 0 thru 9

        o    punctuation marks

       Care must be taken not to include the system default erase or kill charac ters.  passwd will reject any
       password which is not suitably complex.

   Hints for user passwords
       The security of a password depends upon the strength of the encryption al gorithm and the size of the key
       space. The legacy UNIX System encryption method is based on the NBS DES a lgorithm. More recent methods
       are now recommended (see ENCRYPT_METHOD). The size of the key space depen ds upon the randomness of the
       password which is selected.

       Compromises in password security normally result from careless password s election or handling. For this
       reason, you should not select a password which appears in a dictionary or which must be written down. The
       password should also not be a proper name, your license number, birth dat e, or street address. Any of
       these may be used as guesses to violate system security.

       You can find advice on how to choose a strong password on http://en.wikip edia.org/wiki/Password_strength


OPTIONS

       The options which apply to the passwd command are:

       -a, --all
           This option can be used only with -S and causes show status for all u sers.

       -d, --delete
           Delete a user's password (make it empty). This is a quick way to disa ble a password for an account.
           It will set the named account passwordless.

       -e, --expire
           Immediately expire an account's password. This in effect can force a user to change their password at
           the user's next login.

       -h, --help
           Display help message and exit.

       -i, --inactive INACTIVE
           This option is used to disable an account after the password has been expired for a number of days.
           After a user account has had an expired password for INACTIVE days, t he user may no longer sign on to
           the account.

       -k, --keep-tokens
           Indicate password change should be performed only for expired authent ication tokens (passwords). The
           user wishes to keep their non-expired tokens as before.

       -l, --lock
           Lock the password of the named account. This option disables a passwo rd by changing it to a value
           which matches no possible encrypted value (it adds a ´!´ at the begin ning of the password).

           Note that this does not disable the account. The user may still be ab le to login using another
           authentication token (e.g. an SSH key). To disable the account, admin istrators should use usermod
           --expiredate 1 (this set the account's expire date to Jan 2, 1970).

           Users with a locked password are not allowed to change their password
.

       -n, --mindays MIN_DAYS
           Set the minimum number of days between password changes to MIN_DAYS.
A value of zero for this field
           indicates that the user may change their password at any time.

       -q, --quiet
           Quiet mode.

       -r, --repository REPOSITORY change password in REPOSITORY repository

       -R, --root CHROOT_DIR
           Apply changes in the CHROOT_DIR directory and use the configuration f iles from the CHROOT_DIR
           directory.

       -S, --status
           Display account status information. The status information consists o f 7 fields. The first field is
           the user's login name. The second field indicates if the user account has a locked password (L), has
           no password (NP), or has a usable password (P). The third field gives the date of the last password
           change. The next four fields are the minimum age, maximum age, warnin g period, and inactivity period
           for the password. These ages are expressed in days.

       -u, --unlock
           Unlock the password of the named account. This option re-enables a pa ssword by changing the password
           back to its previous value (to the value before using the -l option).

       -w, --warndays WARN_DAYS
           Set the number of days of warning before a password change is require d. The WARN_DAYS option is the
           number of days prior to the password expiring that a user will be war ned that their password is about
           to expire.

       -x, --maxdays MAX_DAYS
           Set the maximum number of days a password remains valid. After MAX_DA
YS, the password is required to be changed.

           Passing the number -1 as MAX_DAYS will remove checking a password's v alidity.


CAVEATS

       Password complexity checking may vary from site to site. The user is urge d to select a password as
       complex as he or she feels comfortable with.

       Users may not be able to change their password on a system if NIS is enab led and they are not logged into
       the NIS server.

       passwd uses PAM to authenticate users and to change their passwords.


FILES

       /etc/passwd
           User account information.

       /etc/shadow
           Secure user account information.

       /etc/pam.d/passwd
           PAM configuration for passwd.


EXIT VALUES

       The passwd command exits with the following values:

       0 success

       1 permission denied

       2 invalid combination of options

       3 unexpected failure, nothing done

       4 unexpected failure, passwd file missing

       5 passwd file busy, try again

       6 invalid argument to option


